# Sayings shown under the clock. One to a line: the words, a tab, and who said them.
# All three sources are in the public domain worldwide by age; Project Gutenberg's own
# header, footer, licence and trademark have been removed, so nothing here carries any
# licence but the app's. Full provenance is in LICENSE and in docs/quotes-sources.xlsx.
#   Clouston, Book of Wise Sayings (1893)          - Project Gutenberg 21130
#   Preston, Dictionary of English Proverbs (1880) - Project Gutenberg 39281
#   Bohn, A Polyglot of Foreign Proverbs (1857)    - Project Gutenberg 51090
If passion gaineth the mastery over reason, the wise will not count thee amongst men.	Firdausí
Knowledge is destroyed by associating with the base; with equals equality is gained, and with the distinguished, distinction.	Hitopadesa
Dost thou desire that thine own heart should not suffer, redeem thou the sufferer from the bonds of misery.	Sa'dí
There is no greater grief in misery than to turn our thoughts back to happier times.	Dante
We in reality only know when we doubt a little. With knowledge comes doubt.	Goethe
In the hour of adversity be not without hope, for crystal rain falls from black clouds.	Nizámí
One common origin unites us all, but every sort of wood does not give the perfume of the lignum aloes.	Arabic
Every moment that a man may be in want of employment, than such I hold him to be far better who is forced to labour for nothing.	Afghan
The foolish undertake a trifling act, and soon desist, discouraged; wise men engage in mighty works, and persevere.	Mágha
Those who wish well towards their friends disdain to please them with words which are not true.	Bháravi
Reason is captive in the hands of the passions, as a weak man in the hands of an artful woman.	Sa'dí
Let us not overstrain our abilities, or we shall do nothing with grace. A clown, whatever he may do, will never pass for a gentleman.	La Fontaine
To abstain from speaking is regarded as very difficult. It is not possible to say much that is valuable and striking.	Mahábhárata
In no wise ask about the faults of others, for he who reporteth the faults of others will report thine also.	Firdausí
The friendship of the bad is like the shade of some precipitous bank with crumbling sides, which, falling, buries him who is beneath.	Bháravi
His action no applause invites Who simply good with good repays; He only justly merits praise Who wrongful deeds with kind requites.	Panchatantra
He is not dead who departs this life with high fame; dead is he, though living, whose brow is branded with infamy.	Tieck
A prudent man will not discover his poverty, his self-torments, the disorders of his house, his uneasiness, or his disgrace.	Hitopadesa
It is difficult to understand men, but still harder to know them thoroughly.	Schiller
Alas, for him who is gone and hath done no good work! The trumpet of march has sounded, and his load was not bound on.	Persian
Human experience, like the stern-lights of a ship at sea, illumines only the path which we have passed over.	Coleridge
Through avarice a man loses his understanding, and by his thirst for wealth he gives pain to the inhabitants of both worlds.	Hitopadesa
In learning, age and youth go for nothing; the best informed take the precedence.	Chinese
Mention not a blemish which is thy own in detraction of a neighbour.	Talmud
Affairs succeed by patience, and he that is hasty falleth headlong.	Sa'dí
A man who has learnt little grows old like an ox: his flesh grows, but his knowledge does not grow.	Dhammapada
Unsullied poverty is always happy, while impure wealth brings with it many sorrows.	Chinese
We are never so much disposed to quarrel with others as when we are dissatisfied with ourselves.	Hazlitt
No one is more profoundly sad than he who laughs too much.	Richter
The heaven that rolls around cries aloud to you while it displays its eternal beauties, and yet your eyes are fixed upon the earth alone.	Dante
This world is a beautiful book, but of little use to him who cannot read it.	Goldoni
Sorrows are like thunder-clouds: in the distance they look black, over our heads, hardly gray.	Richter
The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected without trials.	Chinese
Health is the greatest gift, contentedness the best riches.	Dhammapada
Great and unexpected successes are often the cause of foolish rushing into acts of extravagance.	Demosthenes
Good fortune is a benefit to the wise, but a curse to the foolish.	Chinese
In this thing one man is superior to another, that he is better able to bear adversity and prosperity.	Philemon
The rays of happiness, like those of light, are colourless when unbroken.	Longfellow
There are three things which, in great quantity, are bad, and, in little, very good: leaven, salt, and liberality.	Talmud
Who aims at excellence will be above mediocrity; who aims at mediocrity will be far short of it.	Burmese
Keep thy heart afar from sorrow, and be not anxious about the trouble which is not yet come.	Firdausí
If thy garments be clean and thy heart be foul, thou needest no key to the door of hell.	Sa'dí
We ought never to mock the wretched, for who can be sure of being always happy?	La Fontaine
To those who err in judgment, not in will, anger is gentle.	Sophocles
Not only is the old man twice a child, but also the man who is drunk.	Plato
A wise man adapts himself to circumstances, as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it.	Chinese
He who formerly was reckless and afterwards became sober brightens up this world like the moon when freed from clouds.	Dhammapada
When a base fellow cannot vie with another in merit he will attack him with malicious slander.	Sa'dí
If a man be not so happy as he desires, let this be his comfort--he is not so wretched as he deserves.	R. Chamberlain
The greatest men sometimes overshoot themselves, but then their very mistakes are so many lessons of instruction.	Tom Browne
We may be as good as we please, if we please to be good.	Barrow
I put no account on him who esteems himself just as the popular breath may chance to raise him.	Goethe
He who seeks wealth sacrifices his own pleasure, and, like him who carries burdens for others, bears the load of anxiety.	Hitopadesa
The best preacher is the heart; the best teacher is time; the best book is the world; the best friend is God.	Talmud
Men who have not observed discipline, and have not gained treasure in their youth, perish like old herons in a lake without fish.	Dhammapada
Let thy words between two foes be such that if they were to become friends thou shouldst not be ashamed.	Sa'dí
A man of quick and active wit For drudgery is more unfit, Compared to those of duller parts, Than running nags are to draw carts.	Butler
All affectation is the vain and ridiculous attempt of poverty to appear rich.	Lavater
There never was, there never will be, a man who is always praised, or a man who is always blamed.	Dhammapada
He who can feel ashamed will not readily do wrong.	Talmud
A stranger who is kind is a kinsman; an unkind kinsman is a stranger.	Hitopadesa
That energy which veils itself in mildness is most effective of its object.	Mágha
There is not half so much danger in the desperate sword of a known foe as in the smooth insinuations of a pretended friend.	R. Chamberlain
All kinds of beauty do not inspire love: there is a kind of it which pleases only the sight, but does not captivate the affections.	Cervantes
Contentment consisteth not in heaping more fuel, but in taking away some fire.	Fuller
It is better to be well deserving without praise than to live by the air of undeserved commendation.	R. Chamberlain
He travels safe and not unpleasantly who is guarded by poverty and guided by love.	Sir P. Sidney
Never put thyself in the way of temptation: even David could not resist it.	Talmud
Pride is a vice which pride itself inclines every man to find in others and overlook in himself.	Johnson
To exert his power in doing good is man's most glorious task.	Sophocles
As rain breaks through an ill-thatched house, passion breaks through an unreflecting mind.	Dhammapada
The best thing is to be respected, the next, is to be loved; it is bad to be hated, but still worse to be despised.	Chinese
To be envied is a nobler fate than to be pitied.	Pindar
If you injure a harmless person, the evil will fall back upon you, like light dust thrown up against the wind.	Buddhist
A wise man takes a step at a time; he establishes one foot before he takes up the other: an old place should not be forsaken recklessly.	Sanskrit
There are no riches like the sweetness of content, nor poverty comparable to the want of patience.	R. Chamberlain
Be thou generous, and gentle, and forgiving; as God hath scattered upon thee, scatter thou upon others.	Sa'dí
In the body restraint is good; good is restraint in speech; in thought restraint is good: good is restraint in all things.	Dhammapada
Purpose without power is mere weakness and deception; and power without purpose is mere fatuity.	Sa'dí
Suffering is the necessary consequence of sin, just as when you eat a sour fruit a stomach complaint ensues.	Burmese
Riches disclose in a man's character the bad qualities formerly concealed in his poverty.	Arabic
Parents' affection is best shown by their teaching their children industry and self-denial.	Burmese
He who has given satisfaction to the best of his time has lived for ages.	Schiller
I never yet found pride in a noble nature nor humility in an unworthy mind.	Feltham
Worldly fame is but a breath of wind, that blows now this way, now that, and changes name as it changes sides.	Dante
True modesty and true pride are much the same thing. Both consist in setting a just value on ourselves--neither more nor less.	Hazlitt
Never does a man portray his own character more vividly than in his manner of portraying another.	Richter
A foolish husband fears his wife; a prudent wife obeys her husband.	Chinese
The woman who is resolved to be respected can make herself be so even amidst an army of soldiers.	Cervantes
Petty ambition would seem to be a mean craving after distinction.	Theophrastus
It is an old observation that wise men grow usually wiser as they grow older, and fools more foolish.	Wieland
The man who listens not to the words of affectionate friends will give joy in the time of distress to his enemies.	Hitopadesa
Assume in adversity a countenance of prosperity, and in prosperity moderate thy temper.	Livy
When thou utterest not a word thou hast laid thy hand upon it; when thou hast uttered it, it hath laid its hand on thee.	Sa'dí
To the tongue which bringeth thee words without reason, the answer that best beseemeth thee is--silence.	Nizámí
The man who talketh much and never acteth will not be held in reputation by anyone.	Firdausí
Two sources of success are known: wisdom and effort; make them both thine own, if thou wouldst haply rise.	Mágha
The worse the ill that fate on noble souls Inflicts, the more their firmness; and they arm Their spirits with adamant to meet the blow.	Hindu Drama
Opportunities lose not, for all delay is madness; 'Mid bitter sorrow patience show, for 'tis the key of gladness.	Turkish
Love of money is the disease which renders us most pitiful and grovelling, and love of pleasure is that which renders us most despicable.	Longinus
He who labours diligently need never despair. We can accomplish every thing by diligence and labour.	Menander
Lost money is bewailed with deeper sighs Than friends, or kindred, and with louder cries.	Juvenal
In one short verse I here express The sum of tomes of sacred lore: Beneficence is righteousness, Oppression's sin's malignant core.	Sanskrit
To address a judicious remark to a thoughtless man is a mere threshing of chaff.	Hitopadesa
All the blessings of a household come through the wife, therefore should her husband honour her.	Talmud
Certain books seem to be written, not that we might learn from them, but in order that we might see how much the author knows.	Goethe
We rather confess our moral errors, faults, and crimes than our ignorance.	Goethe
The angel grows up in divine knowledge, the brute, in savage ignorance, and the son of man stands hesitating between the two.	Persian
If thou lackest knowledge, what hast thou then acquired? Hast thou acquired knowledge, what else dost thou want?	Talmud
Be modest and simple in your deportment, and treat with indifference whatever lies between virtue and vice. Love the human race; obey God.	Marcus Aurelius
Bootless grief hurts a man's self, but patience makes a jest of an injury.	R. Chamberlain
Poverty without debt is independence.	Arabic
Like a beautiful flower, full of colour but without scent, are the fine but fruitless words of him who does not act accordingly.	Dhammapada
When men are doubtful of the true state of things, their wishes lead them to believe in what is most agreeable.	Arrianus
The best conduct a man can adopt is that which gains him the esteem of others without depriving him of his own.	Talmud
The loss of a much-prized treasure is only half felt when we have not regarded its tenure as secure.	Goethe
The dull-hued turkey apes the gait Of lordly peacock, richly plumed; And thus the poetaster shows When he would fain his verse recite.	Hindu Poetess
Two persons die remorseful: he who possessed and enjoyed not, and he who knew but did not practise.	Sa'dí
If a man conquer in battle a thousand times a thousand men, and if another conquer himself, he is the greater of conquerors.	Dhammapada
If your foot slip, you may recover your balance, but if your tongue slip, you cannot recall your words.	Telugu
A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as the hollow mountain returns all sounds.	Chinese
A man cannot possess anything that is better than a good wife, or anything that is worse than a bad one.	Simonides
The wife of bad conduct--constantly pleased with quarrelling--she is known by wise men to be cruel Old Age in the form of a wife.	Panchatantra
By nature all men are alike, but by education very different.	Chinese
Weak men gain their object when allied with strong associates: the brook reaches the ocean by the river's aid.	Mágha
A swan is out of place among crows, a lion among bulls, a horse among asses, and a wise man among fools.	Burmese
We blame equally him who is too proud to put a proper value on his own merit and him who prizes too highly his spurious worth.	Goethe
Men are so simple, and yield so much to necessity, that he who will deceive may always find him that will lend himself to be deceived.	Machiavelli
If thou art a man, speak not much about thine own manliness, for not every champion driveth the ball to the goal.	Sa'dí
The potter forms what he pleases with soft clay, so a man accomplishes his works by his own act.	Hitopadesa
An ass will with his long ears fray The flies that tickle him away; But man delights to have his ears Blown maggots in by flatterers.	Butler
He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home.	Goethe
Being continually in people's sight, by the satiety which it creates, diminishes the reverence felt for great characters.	Livy
There is a great difference between one who can feel ashamed before his own soul and one who is only ashamed before his fellow men.	Talmud
By rousing himself, by earnestness, by restraint and control the wise man may make for himself an island which no flood can overwhelm.	Dhammapada
There is nothing in this world which a resolute man, who exerts himself, cannot attain.	Somadeva
What avails your wealth, if it makes you arrogant to the poor?	Arabic
All confidence is dangerous unless it is complete; there are few circumstances in which it is not better either to hide all or to tell all.	La Bruyère
The natural hostility of beasts is laid aside when flying from pursuers; so also when danger is impending the enmity of rivals is ended.	Bháravi
He who toils with pain will eat with pleasure.	Chinese
A day of fortune is like a harvest-day, we must be busy when the corn is ripe.	Goethe
The fame of good men's actions seldom goes beyond their own doors, but their evil deeds are carried a thousand miles' distance.	Chinese
It is good to tame the mind, which is difficult to hold in, and flighty, rushing wheresoever it listeth: a tamed mind brings blessings.	Dhammapada
What a rich man gives and what he consumes, that is his real worth.	Hitopadesa
He who does not think too much of himself is much more esteemed than he imagines.	Goethe
The doctrine that enters only into the ear is like the repast one takes in a dream.	Chinese
Adorn thy mind with knowledge, for knowledge maketh thy worth.	Firdausí
No one hath come into the world for a continuance save him who leaveth behind him a good name.	Sa'dí
Happy the man who early learns the difference between his wishes and his powers.	Goethe
We are more sociable and get on better with people by the heart than the intellect.	La Bruyère
Do not anxiously expect what is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past.	Chinese
There are many who talk on from ignorance rather than from knowledge, and who find the former an inexhaustible fund of conversation.	Hazlitt
Whoever brings cheerfulness to his work, and is ever active, dashes through the world's labours.	Tieck
Grossness is not difficult to define: it is obtrusive and objectionable pleasantry.	Theophrastus
Do not consider any vice as trivial, and therefore practise it; do not consider any virtue as unimportant, and therefore neglect it.	Chinese
To bad as well as good, to all, A generous man compassion shows; On earth no mortal lives, he knows, Who does not oft through weakness fall.	Rámáyana
A benefit given to the good is like characters engraven on a stone; a benefit given to the evil is like a line drawn on water.	Buddhist
Safe in thy breast close lock up thy intents, For he that knows thy purpose best prevents.	Randolph
Frugality should ever be practised, but not excessive parsimony.	Hitopadesa
A bad man is as much pleased as a good man is distressed to speak ill of others.	Mahábhárata
Every bird has its decoy, and every man is led and misled in his own peculiar way.	Goethe
Too much to lament a misery is the next way to draw on a remediless mischief.	R. Chamberlain
There is no remembrance which time doth not obliterate, nor pain which death doth not put an end to.	Cervantes
Plans that are wise and prudent in themselves are rendered vain when the execution of them is carried on negligently and with imprudence.	Guicciardini
As gold is tried by the furnace, and the baser metal shown, so the hollow-hearted friend is known by adversity.	Metastasio
The rose does not bloom without thorns. True, but would that the thorns did not outlive the rose.	Richter
Truth from the mouth of an honest man and severity from a good-natured man have a double effect.	Hazlitt
The more weakness the more falsehood; strength goes straight: every cannon ball that has in it hollows and holes goes crooked.	Richter
Learning dissipates many doubts, and causes things otherwise invisible to be seen, and is the eye of everyone who is not absolutely blind.	Hitopadesa
Education and morals will be found almost the whole that goes to make a good man.	Aristotle
Toil and pleasure, in their natures opposite, are yet linked together in a kind of necessary connection.	Livy
Enjoy thou the prosperity of others, Although thyself unprosperous; noble men Take pleasure in their neighbours' happiness.	Mahábhárata
The manner of giving shows the character of the giver more than the gift itself. There is a princely manner of giving and accepting.	Lavater
Perfect ignorance is quiet, perfect knowledge is quiet; not so the transition from the former to the latter.	Carlyle
Fair words without good deeds to a man in misery are like a saddle of gold clapped upon a galled horse.	Chamberlain
It is a common remark that men talk most who think least; just as frogs cease their quacking when a light is brought to the water-side.	Richter
Vociferation and calmness of character seldom meet in the same person.	Lavater
Wit and wisdom differ. Wit is upon the sudden turn, wisdom is in bringing about ends.	Selden
Real and solid happiness springs from moderation.	Goethe
We should know mankind better if we were not so anxious to resemble one another.	Goethe
Root out the love of self, as you might the autumn lotus with your hand.	Buddhist
Whoever has the seed of virtue and honour implanted in his breast will drop a sympathising tear on the woes of his neighbour.	Nakhshabí
Do naught to others which, if done to thee, would cause thee pain: this is the sum of duty.	Mahábhárata
The man who cannot blush, and who has no feelings of fear, has reached the acme of impudence.	Menander
If you only knew the evils which others suffer, you would willingly submit to those which you now bear.	Philemon
Children form a bond of union than which the human heart finds none more enduring.	Livy
The sweetest pleasures soonest cloy, And its best flavour temperance gives to joy.	Juvenal
To our own sorrows serious heed we give, But for another's we soon cease to grieve.	Pindar
Can anything be more absurd than that the nearer we are to our journey's end, we should lay in the more provision for it?	Cicero
Set about whatever you intend to do; the beginning is half the battle.	Ausonius
No prince, how great soever, begets his predecessors, and the noblest rivers are not navigable to the fountain.	A. Marvell
The guilty man may escape, but he cannot be sure of doing so.	Epicurus
In everything you will find annoyances, but you ought to consider whether the advantages do not predominate.	Menander
Dreams in general take their rise from those incidents which have most occupied the thoughts during the day.	Herodotus
Sleeping, we image what awake we wish; Dogs dream of bones, and fishermen of fish.	Theocritus
There is nothing more beautiful than cheerfulness in an old face, and among country people it is always a sign of a well-regulated life.	Richter
He alone is poor who does not possess knowledge.	Talmud
It is not enough to know; we must apply what we know. It is not enough to will; we must also act.	Goethe
Words of blame from those who are hostile to a great man cannot injure him. The moon is not hurt when barked at by a dog.	Arabic
The value of three things is justly appreciated by all classes of men: youth, by the old; health, by the diseased; and wealth, by the needy.	Omar Khayyám
As one might nurse a tiny flame, The able and far-seeing man, E'en with the smallest capital, Can raise himself to wealth.	Buddhist
By a husband wealth is accumulated; by a wife is its preservation.	Burmese
A man ought not to return evil for evil, as many think, since at no time ought we to do an injury to our neighbour.	Plato
The man with hoary head is not revered as aged by the gods, but only he who has true knowledge; he, though young, is old.	Manu
No fathers and mothers think their own children ugly, and this self-deceit is yet stronger with respect to the offspring of the mind.	Cervantes
Among wonderful things is a sore-eyed man who is an oculist.	Arabic
Gold gives the appearance of beauty even to ugliness; but everything becomes frightful with poverty.	Boileau
When the scale of sensuality bears down that of reason, the baseness of our nature conducts us to most preposterous conclusions.	R. Chamberlain
Idleness is a great enemy to mankind. There is no friend like energy, for, if you cultivate that, it will never fail.	Bhartrihari
The greatest difficulties lie where we are not looking for them.	Goethe
We must oblige everybody as much as we can; we have often need of assistance from those inferior to ourselves.	La Fontaine
In sooth, it is a shame to choose rather to be still borrowing in all places, from everybody, than to work and win.	Rabelais
Behaviour is a mirror in which every one shows his image.	Goethe
There is nothing more daring than ignorance.	Menander
It is not easy to stop the fire when the water is at a distance; friends at hand are better than relations afar off.	Chinese
Noble birth is an accident of fortune, noble actions characterise the great.	Goldoni
Simplicity of character is the natural result of profound thought.	Hazlitt
When anyone is modest, not after praise, but after censure, then he is really so.	Richter
Experience has always shown, and reason shows, that affairs which depend on many seldom succeed.	Guicciardini
The old lose one of the greatest privileges of man, for they are no longer judged by their contemporaries.	Goethe
In youth a man is deluded by other ideas than those which delude him in middle life, and again in his decay he embraces other ideas.	Mahábhárata
To consider, Is this man of our own or an alien? is a mark of little-minded persons; but the whole earth is of kin to the generous-hearted.	Panchatantra
Skill in advising others is easily attained by men; but to practise righteousness themselves is what only a few can succeed in doing.	Hitopadesa
Understand a man by his deeds and words; the impressions of others lead to false judgment.	Talmud
A man of feeble character resembles a reed that bends with every gust of wind.	Mágha
There is no fire like passion; there is no shark like hatred; there is no snare like folly; there is no torrent like greed.	Dhammapada
Commit a sin twice, and it will not seem to thee a sin.	Talmud
Inquire about your neighbour before you build, and about your companions before you travel.	Arabic
Rather skin a carcass for pay in the public streets than be idly dependent on charity.	Talmud
Every gift, though small, is in reality great, if it be given with affection.	Philemon
Good words, good deeds, and beautiful expressions A wise man ever culls from every quarter, E'en as a gleaner gathers ears of corn.	Mahábhárata
By the fall of water-drops the pot is filled: such is the increase of riches, of knowledge, and of virtue.	Hitopadesa
It is only necessary to grow old in order to become more indulgent. I see no fault committed that I have not been myself inclined to.	Goethe
A wise man should never resolve upon anything, at least, never let the world know his resolution, for if he cannot reach that he is ashamed.	Selden
Men's minds are generally ingenious in palliating guilt in themselves.	Livy
Poverty is not dishonourable in itself, but only when it arises from idleness, intemperance, extravagance, and folly.	Plutarch
First think, and if thy thoughts approve thy will, Then speak, and after, what thou speak'st fulfil.	Randolph
Friendship throws a greater lustre on prosperity, while it lightens adversity by sharing in its griefs and troubles.	Cicero
The greater part of mankind employ their first years to make their last miserable.	La Bruyère
'Tis those who reverence the old That are the men versed in the Faith; Worthy of praise while in this life, And happy in the life to come.	Buddhist
Those men are wise who do not desire the unattainable, who do not love to mourn over what is lost, and are not overwhelmed by calamities.	Mahábhárata
Let him take heart who does advance, even in the smallest degree.	Plato
A truly great man never puts away the simplicity of a child.	Chinese
A husband is the chief ornament of a wife, though she have no other ornament; but, though adorned, without a husband she has no ornaments.	Hitopadesa
The man who has not anything to boast of but his illustrious ancestors is like a potato--the only good belonging to him is underground.	Sir Thos. Overbury
When men will not be reasoned out of a vanity, they must be ridiculed out of it.	L'Estrange
Women are ever in extremes, they are either better or worse than men.	La Bruyère
An absent friend gives us friendly company when we are well assured of his happiness.	Goethe
The man of worth is really great without being proud; the mean man is proud without being really great.	Chinese
Liberality consists less in giving much than in giving at the right moment.	La Bruyère
Outward perfection without inward goodness sets but the blacker dye on the mind's deformity.	R. Chamberlain
As a solid rock is not shaken by the wind, so wise men falter not amidst blame or praise.	Dhammapada
Of what avail is the praise or censure of the vulgar, who make a useless noise like a senseless crow in a forest?	Mahábhárata
A man of little learning deems that little a great deal; a frog, never having seen the ocean, considers its well a great sea.	Burmese
Let every man sweep the snow from before his own doors, and not busy himself about the frost on his neighbour's tiles.	Chinese
Women's wealth is beauty, learning, that of men.	Burmese
It is not flesh and blood, it is the heart, that makes fathers and sons.	Schiller
Happy the man who lives at home, making it his business to regulate his desires.	La Fontaine
Flattery may be considered as a mode of companionship, degrading but profitable to him who flatters.	Theophrastus
Virtue beameth from a generous spirit as light from the moon, or as brilliancy from Jupiter.	Nizámí
Men of genius are often dull and inert in society, as the blazing meteor when it descends to earth is only a stone.	Longfellow
The fool who knows his foolishness is wise so far, at least; but a fool who thinks himself wise, he is called a fool indeed.	Dhammapada
He who mixes with unclean things becomes unclean himself; he whose associations are pure becomes purer each day.	Talmud
Eschew that friend, if thou art wise, who consorts with thy enemies.	Sa'dí
Whosoever hath not knowledge, and benevolence, and piety knoweth nothing of reality, and dwelleth only in semblance.	Sa'dí
If thou shouldst find thy friend in the wrong reprove him secretly, but in the presence of company praise him.	Arabic
Modesty is attended with profit, arrogance brings on destruction.	Chinese
The greatest hatred, like the greatest virtue and the worst dogs, is quiet.	Richter
Listen, if you would learn; be silent, if you would be safe.	Arabic
All such distinctions as tend to set the orders of the state at a distance from each other are equally subversive of liberty and concord.	Livy
No man is the wiser for his learning. It may administer matter to work in, or objects to work upon, but wit and wisdom are born with a man.	Selden
Whosoever lends a greedy ear to a slanderous report is either himself of a radically bad disposition or a mere child in sense.	Menander
A foolish man in wealth and authority is like a weak-timbered house with a too-ponderous roof.	R. Chamberlain
A lively blockhead in company is a public benefit. Silence or dulness by the side of folly looks like wisdom.	Hazlitt
Eminent positions make eminent men greater and little men less.	La Bruyère
No joy in nature is so sublimely affecting as the joy of a mother at the good fortune of a child.	Richter
Want and sorrow are the gifts which folly earns for itself.	Schubert
In character, in manners, in style, in all things, the supreme excellence is simplicity.	Longfellow
Those who cause dissensions in order to injure other people are preparing pitfalls for their own ruin.	Chinese
A man should not keep company with one whose character, family, and abode are unknown.	Panchatantra
Sit not down to the table before thy stomach is empty, and rise before thou hast filled it.	Arabic
If thou be rich, strive to command thy money, lest it command thee.	Quarles
In all companies there are more fools than wise men, and the greater part always gets the better of the wiser.	Rabelais
Talents are best nurtured in solitude; character is best formed in the stormy billows of the world.	Goethe
No one ought to despond in adverse circumstances, for they may turn out to be the cause of good to us.	Menander
The constant man loses not his virtue in misfortune. A torch may point towards the ground, but its flame will still point upwards.	Bhartrihari
A man should never despise himself, for brilliant success never attends on the man who is contemned by himself.	Mahábhárata
Not to attend at the door of the wealthy, and not to use the voice of petition--these constitute the best life of a man.	Hitopadesa
Treat no one with disdain; with patience bear Reviling language; with an angry man Be never angry; blessings give for curses.	Manu
Absence cools moderate passions, and inflames violent ones.	English proverb
The absent are always at fault.	English proverb
Who hath aching teeth, hath ill tenants.	English proverb
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.	English proverb
Give neither advice nor salt until you are asked for it.	English proverb
What every one asks, what every one gives, but what very few take--advice.	English proverb
In vain he craves advice who will not follow it.	English proverb
Advice comes too late when a thing is done.	English proverb
He that's afraid of wounds must not come nigh a battle.	English proverb
Agues come on horseback, but go away on foot.	English proverb
Good ale is meat, drink, and cloth.	English proverb
Every one has a penny to spend at a new ale-house.	English proverb
Steal the goose, and give the giblets in alms.	English proverb
Anger is short-lived in a good man.	English proverb
Keep from the anger of a great man.	English proverb
He that is angry without a cause must be pleased without amends.	English proverb
None knows the weight of another's burden.	English proverb
April and May are the keys of the year.	English proverb
April borrows three days of March, and they are ill.	English proverb
Argus at home, but a mole abroad.	English proverb
Never be ashamed to eat your meat.	English proverb
Every man must eat a peck of ashes before he dies.	English proverb
Ask but enough, and you may lower as you list.	English proverb
Ask thy purse what thou shouldst buy.	English proverb
The ass that brays most, eats least.	English proverb
Every ass thinks himself worthy to stand with the king's horses.	English proverb
A wet August never brings dearth.	English proverb
Bachelors grin, but married men laugh till their hearts ache.	English proverb
Bachelors' wives and maids' children are always well taught.	English proverb
Where bad's the best, naught must be the choice.	English proverb
Better be alone than in bad company.	English proverb
A bad day never hath a good night.	English proverb
He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one.	English proverb
Bring not a bagpipe to a man in trouble.	English proverb
He is most loved that hath most bags.	English proverb
The balance distinguishes not between gold and lead.	English proverb
There's no great banquet but some fare ill.	English proverb
Like a barber's chair, fit for every buttock.	English proverb
One barber shaves not so close but another finds work.	English proverb
Barefooted men should not tread on thorns.	English proverb
Better a bare foot than no foot at all.	English proverb
Make the best of a bad bargain.	English proverb
At a great bargain make a great pause.	English proverb
What! keep a dog and bark myself?	English proverb
The greatest barkers are not always the sorest biters.	English proverb
Sir John Barleycorn is the strongest knight.	English proverb
Barley straw's good fodder when the cow gives water.	English proverb
You cannot know wine by the barrel.	English proverb
Commend a wedded life, but keep thyself a batchelor.	English proverb
Sow beans in the mud, they'll grow like wood.	English proverb
Beans should blow before May doth go.	English proverb
A man may bear till his back breaks.	English proverb
Bear with evil and expect good.	English proverb
'Tis easy to find a staff to beat a dog.	English proverb
Better to be beaten than be in bad company.	English proverb
As you make your bed so you must lie on it.	English proverb
He who lies long in bed his estate feels it.	English proverb
Where bees are there is honey.	English proverb
He that hires the horse must ride before.	English proverb
Better be a beggar than a fool.	English proverb
A beggar can never be bankrupt.	English proverb
The beggar is never out of his way.	English proverb
Beggars on horseback will ride to the devil.	English proverb
Trash and trumpery is the highway to beggary.	English proverb
Begging is an ill trade on a fast-day.	English proverb
A good beginning makes a good ending.	English proverb
Such a beginning, such an end.	English proverb
Good to begin well; better to end well.	English proverb
When two ride together one must ride behind.	English proverb
You would make me believe the moon is made of green cheese.	English proverb
Fear not the loss of the bell more than the loss of the steeple.	English proverb
Bend the twig while it is young.	English proverb
As the twig is bent the tree's inclined.	English proverb
Let the best dog leap the stile first.	English proverb
The better the day, the better the deed.	English proverb
Do as you are bidden and you'll never be to blame.	English proverb
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.	English proverb
Every bird must hatch her own egg.	English proverb
One beats the bush and another catcheth the bird.	English proverb
Birds of a feather flock together.	English proverb
The bird that can sing and will not sing, must be made to sing.	English proverb
Even small birds must have meat.	English proverb
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.	English proverb
He that bites on every weed must needs light on poison.	English proverb
A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day.	English proverb
Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling.	English proverb
A black plum is as sweet as a white.	English proverb
Who so blind as he that will not see?	English proverb
A blind man would be glad to see it.	English proverb
Like a treatise on light and colours by a blind man.	English proverb
You cannot get blood out of a stone.	English proverb
'Tis a blot on his escutcheon.	English proverb
He who blusters without reason has most reason to bluster.	English proverb
Whether you boil snow or pound it, you will have but water from it.	English proverb
Give a dog a bone in his mouth, and you may kick him and he can't bite.	English proverb
The nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.	English proverb
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.	English proverb
Borrowed garments never fit well.	English proverb
They that are bound must obey.	English proverb
A bow long bent at last waxeth weak.	English proverb
Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast is a better.	English proverb
Brag's a good dog, but that he hath lost his tail.	English proverb
Brag's a good dog if he be well set on; but he dare not bite.	English proverb
The brain that sows not corn, plants thistles.	English proverb
He who would have a hare for breakfast must hunt over night.	English proverb
The best horse needs breaking, and the best child needs teaching.	English proverb
That which is bred in the bone will never be out of the flesh.	English proverb
As you brew, so shall you bake.	English proverb
A bribe will enter without knocking.	English proverb
There is no deceit in a brimmer.	English proverb
A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking.	English proverb
A burden which one chooses is not felt.	English proverb
The back is made for the burden.	English proverb
No one knows the weight of another's burden.	English proverb
The greatest burdens are not the gainfullest.	English proverb
A burnt child dreads the fire.	English proverb
Every man as his business lies.	English proverb
A bad bush is better than the open field.	English proverb
Who more busy than they that have least to do.	English proverb
Better pay the butcher than the doctor.	English proverb
Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night.	English proverb
Why, butter would not melt in his mouth!	English proverb
What is a pound of butter amongst a kennel of hounds?	English proverb
Once a year butter is in the cow's horn.	English proverb
He knows on which side his bread is buttered.	English proverb
Let the buyer look out for himself.	English proverb
You cannot eat your cake and have it.	English proverb
In a calm sea every man is a pilot.	English proverb
Calm weather in June sets corn in tune.	English proverb
A man can do more than he can.	English proverb
Burn not your candle at both ends at once.	English proverb
On Candlemas day you must have half your straw and half your hay.	English proverb
On Candlemas day throw candle and candle-stick away.	English proverb
Where the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.	English proverb
Many can pack the cards that cannot play.	English proverb
Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves.	English proverb
Don't run away with more than you can carry.	English proverb
Like carrying coals to Newcastle.	English proverb
Tis easy to build castles in the air.	English proverb
Rolling in cash he can't use, like a cat in a corn-bin.	English proverb
An Englishman's house is his castle.	English proverb
The cat is hungry when a crust contents her.	English proverb
The cat sees not the mouse ever.	English proverb
I'll keep no more cats than will catch mice.	English proverb
A cat has nine lives, yet care will kill a cat.	English proverb
When the cat winketh, little wots the mouse what the cat thinketh.	English proverb
Though the cat winks awhile, yet sure she is not blind.	English proverb
A cat loves fish, but she's loth to wet her feet.	English proverb
It's a bad cause that none dare speak in.	English proverb
Those are wise who learn caution from their own experience; but those are wiser who learn it from the experience of others.	English proverb
There is nothing certain in this life but death and taxes!	English proverb
Never quit certainty for hope.	English proverb
I'm too old a bird to be caught by chaff.	English proverb
The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion.	English proverb
It chanceth in an hour that comes not in seven years.	English proverb
Change of pasture makes fat calves.	English proverb
The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window.	English proverb
He that chastiseth one, amendeth many.	English proverb
Count not your chickens before they are hatched.	English proverb
Woe to the house where there is no chiding.	English proverb
Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.	English proverb
A child may have too much of his mother's blessing.	English proverb
Child's pig, but father's bacon.	English proverb
Children and fools speak the truth.	English proverb
Children and fools have merry lives.	English proverb
Children and chickens must be always picking.	English proverb
Children are poor men's riches.	English proverb
Children should hear, see, and say nothing.	English proverb
When children stand quiet they have done some harm.	English proverb
Children are certain cares, but very uncertain comforts.	English proverb
Children suck the mother when they are young, and the father when they are old.	English proverb
So we have the chink, we'll bear the stink.	English proverb
Christmas comes but once a year.	English proverb
Green Christmas, white Easter.	English proverb
They talk of Christmas so long that it comes.	English proverb
Where God hath His church the devil will have his chapel.	English proverb
The nearer the church the farther from God.	English proverb
Pater-noster built churches, and Our Father pulls them down.	English proverb
Civil words cost nothing, and go a long way.	English proverb
'Tis the clerk makes the justice.	English proverb
Climb not too high, lest the fall be the greater.	English proverb
Who never climbed, never fell.	English proverb
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.	English proverb
Have not the cloak to make when it begins to rain.	English proverb
Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home.	English proverb
The clock goes as it pleases the clerk.	English proverb
A close mouth catcheth no flies.	English proverb
It is good keeping his clothes who is going to swim.	English proverb
Every cloud hath a silver lining.	English proverb
Clouds that the sun builds up darken him.	English proverb
After clouds comes clear weather.	English proverb
Cloudy mornings turn to clear evenings.	English proverb
Even a clown clings to his cloak when it rains.	English proverb
Cut your coat according to your cloth.	English proverb
It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.	English proverb
Let not the cobbler go beyond his last.	English proverb
Who goes worse shod than the cobbler's wife?	English proverb
The cock crows and the hen goes.	English proverb
Every cock is proud on his own dunghill.	English proverb
Where coin's not common, commons must be scant.	English proverb
A cold April a barn will fill.	English proverb
In the coldest flint there is hot fire.	English proverb
It's an ill battle where the devil carries the colours.	English proverb
When you ride a young colt see your saddle be well girt.	English proverb
Two's company and three's none.	English proverb
Tell me what company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.	English proverb
It's good to have company in trouble.	English proverb
A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag.	English proverb
There's no companion like a penny.	English proverb
They complain wrongfully of the sea, who twice suffer shipwreck.	English proverb
Cold of complexion, good of condition.	English proverb
A woman conceals what she knows not.	English proverb
A generous confession disarms slander.	English proverb
Confession of a fault makes half amends for it.	English proverb
Open confession is good for the soul.	English proverb
It is no small conquest to overcome yourself.	English proverb
A clear conscience is a sure card.	English proverb
Constant dropping wears the stone.	English proverb
When all is consumed repentance comes too late.	English proverb
Content is the true philosopher's stone.	English proverb
A contented mind is a continual feast.	English proverb
He that hath nothing is not contented.	English proverb
He may well be contented who needs neither borrow nor flatter.	English proverb
People are sometimes better contented full than fasting.	English proverb
The greatest wealth is contentment with a little.	English proverb
Corn is cleansed with the wind, and the soul with chastening.	English proverb
I'll not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion.	English proverb
Counsels in wine seldom prosper.	English proverb
In wiving and thriving men should take counsel of all the world.	English proverb
Three may keep counsel, if two be away.	English proverb
He that will not be counselled cannot be helped.	English proverb
Count not your chickens before they be hatched.	English proverb
In every country the sun riseth in the morning.	English proverb
You must go into the country to hear what news at London.	English proverb
A friend at court is better than a penny in the purse.	English proverb
Far from court, far from care.	English proverb
Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse.	English proverb
Courtesy on one side never lasts long.	English proverb
Men dream in courtship but in wedlock wake.	English proverb
Call me cousin; but cozen me not.	English proverb
Stretch your legs according to your coverlet.	English proverb
He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill.	English proverb
Covetousness brings nothing home.	English proverb
Many a good cow hath had a bad calf.	English proverb
Look to the cow, and the sow, and the wheat mow, and all will be well enow.	English proverb
Cowardice is afraid to be known or seen.	English proverb
The greatest crabs are not always the best meat.	English proverb
He must crack the nut that would eat the kernel.	English proverb
Of all crafts, to be an honest man is the master-craft.	English proverb
Crafty evasions save not the truth.	English proverb
To a crazy ship all winds are contrary.	English proverb
A creaking gate hangs longest on its hinges.	English proverb
The worst wheel of a cart creaks most.	English proverb
Credit lost is a Venice glass broken.	English proverb
Creditors have better memories than debtors.	English proverb
Critics are like brushers of other men's clothes.	English proverb
A crooked tree will have a crooked shadow.	English proverb
Crooked logs make straight fires.	English proverb
Every cross has its inscription.	English proverb
Crosses are ladders for getting to heaven.	English proverb
Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven.	English proverb
The crow thinks her own bird fairest.	English proverb
A crow is never the whiter for washing herself often.	English proverb
It never goes well when the hen crows.	English proverb
Cruelty is a tyrant always attended by fear.	English proverb
Where are the crumbs there are the chickens.	English proverb
Don't cry out before you're hurt.	English proverb
What cannot be cured must be endured.	English proverb
Curses are like chickens, they come home to roost.	English proverb
A bad custom is like a good cake, better broken than kept.	English proverb
Desperate cuts must have desperate cures.	English proverb
No longer pipe, no longer dance.	English proverb
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.	English proverb
They love dancing well that dance among thorns.	English proverb
The danger's past, and God's forgotten.	English proverb
Dainty dogs may have to eat dirty puddings.	English proverb
It is as good to be in the dark as without light.	English proverb
A dark man's a jewel in a fair woman's eye.	English proverb
He that gropes in the dark finds that he would not.	English proverb
Daylight will peep through a small hole.	English proverb
He that waits for a dead man's shoes may go long enough barefoot.	English proverb
There are none so deaf as those who will not hear.	English proverb
It's a wicked thing to make a dearth one's garner.	English proverb
Death is deaf and hears no denial.	English proverb
Debt is the worst kind of poverty.	English proverb
In the deepest water is the best fishing.	English proverb
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.	English proverb
A life spent worthily should be measured by deeds--not years.	English proverb
Never venture out of your depth until you can swim.	English proverb
Desert and reward seldom keep company.	English proverb
First deserve and then desire.	English proverb
Desires are nourished by delays.	English proverb
What one man despises, another craves.	English proverb
Hanging and wiving go by destiny.	English proverb
Talk of the devil and he'll be sure to appear.	English proverb
He that hath shipped the devil must make the best of him.	English proverb
Make not the devil blacker than he is.	English proverb
He needs must go that the devil drives.	English proverb
One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil.	English proverb
The devil is not always at one door.	English proverb
St. Bartholomew brings the cold dew.	English proverb
Young men may die, old men must.	English proverb
Diligence is a good patrimony.	English proverb
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.	English proverb
After dinner sit awhile, after supper walk a mile.	English proverb
He who would enjoy his friend's dinner should not look into the kitchen.	English proverb
Two in distress make sorrows less.	English proverb
Sweet discourse makes short days and nights.	English proverb
Discreet women have neither eyes nor ears.	English proverb
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.	English proverb
Disease is oft the tax of pleasure.	English proverb
To know the disease is half the cure.	English proverb
We must do as we may, if we cannot do as we would.	English proverb
A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone.	English proverb
An old doctor, a young lawyer.	English proverb
A good dog deserves a good bone.	English proverb
It's a bad dog that deserves not a crust.	English proverb
If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send.	English proverb
A thousand pounds and a pottle of hay is all one thing at doomsday.	English proverb
When one door shuts another opens.	English proverb
He that's down, down with him.	English proverb
You may draw him which way you will, with a twine thread.	English proverb
A drowning man will catch at a straw.	English proverb
Drink water like an ox, wine like a king of Spain.	English proverb
He who drinks when he is not dry, will be dry when he has no drink.	English proverb
Drive not a second nail till the first is clenched.	English proverb
Pour not water on a drowned mouse.	English proverb
A drunken night makes a cloudy morning.	English proverb
Drunken folk often speak truth.	English proverb
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.	English proverb
Dry bread at home is better than roast beef abroad.	English proverb
A dry cough is the trumpeter of death.	English proverb
'Tis the early bird catches the worm.	English proverb
Little pitchers have long ears.	English proverb
Wider ears and a shorter tongue.	English proverb
A pennyworth of ease is worth a penny.	English proverb
That which is easily done is soon believed.	English proverb
Live not to eat, but eat to live.	English proverb
Eating and drinking takes away one's appetite.	English proverb
It is ill meddling with edged tools.	English proverb
You cannot hide an eel in a sack.	English proverb
Don't put all your eggs into one basket.	English proverb
'Tis hard to sail o'er the sea in an egg-shell.	English proverb
Rub your sore eye with your elbow.	English proverb
Give it plenty of elbow grease.	English proverb
Better an empty house than a bad tenant.	English proverb
An empty purse fills the face with wrinkles.	English proverb
That's but an empty purse that's full of other men's money.	English proverb
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.	English proverb
Everything hath an end, and a pudding hath two.	English proverb
He that endureth is not overcome.	English proverb
England is the Paradise of women.	English proverb
Enough and to spare is too much.	English proverb
There's never enough where nothing's left.	English proverb
To err is human; to forgive divine.	English proverb
Send a wise man on an errand and say nothing to him.	English proverb
'Tis a hard battle where none escapes.	English proverb
He that throws away his estate with his hands, goes afterwards to pick it upon his feet.	English proverb
He that knows himself best, esteems himself least.	English proverb
He had need rise betimes that would please everybody.	English proverb
Everybody's business is nobody's business.	English proverb
Every man for himself, and God for us all.	English proverb
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.	English proverb
Evil communications corrupt good manners.	English proverb
If you must have an evil, choose a little one.	English proverb
That which is evil is soon learnt.	English proverb
The evil wound is cured, but not the evil name.	English proverb
Of evil grain no good seed can come.	English proverb
Of two evils choose the lesser.	English proverb
Example teaches more than precept.	English proverb
A bad excuse is better than none at all.	English proverb
Proportion your expenses to what you have, not to what you expect.	English proverb
Experience is a dear school, but it is the only one we are apt to learn in.	English proverb
Experience is the mistress of fools.	English proverb
Better one eye than quite blind.	English proverb
What the eye sees not, the heart rues not.	English proverb
You should never touch your eye but with your elbow.	English proverb
What the eye does not see the heart does not grieve for.	English proverb
One eye-witness is better than ten hearsays.	English proverb
A single fact is worth a ship-load of argument.	English proverb
Faint heart never won a fair lady.	English proverb
Faint praise is disparagement.	English proverb
Fair and softly go far in a day.	English proverb
A fair face may hide a foul heart.	English proverb
Fair feathers make fair fowls.	English proverb
Love asks faith, and faith asks firmness.	English proverb
One may sooner fall than rise.	English proverb
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.	English proverb
When the tree falls every man runs with his hatchet.	English proverb
Keeping from falling is better than helping up.	English proverb
Under water famine, under snow bread.	English proverb
A famine in England begins at the horse-manger.	English proverb
Fancy may bolt bran and think it flour.	English proverb
You may go farther and fare worse.	English proverb
As good to be out of the world as out of the fashion.	English proverb
Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth.	English proverb
Every one puts his fault on the times.	English proverb
A fault once denied is twice committed.	English proverb
Fault-finders should be fault-menders.	English proverb
Every one's faults are not written on their foreheads.	English proverb
God send me a friend that may tell me my faults; if not, an enemy, he will be sure to.	English proverb
The faulty stands on his guard.	English proverb
A feast is not made of mushrooms only.	English proverb
Merry is the feast-making until we come to the reckoning.	English proverb
Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.	English proverb
Fine feathers make fine birds.	English proverb
Feather by feather the goose is plucked.	English proverb
February makes a bridge, and March breaks it.	English proverb
Feed sparingly, and defy the physician.	English proverb
Love and lordship like no fellowship.	English proverb
No man loves his fetters, though of gold.	English proverb
Have but few friends, though many acquaintances.	English proverb
The fifer don't pay a fiddler.	English proverb
Fiddler's fare; meat, drink, and money.	English proverb
Fields have eyes, and woods have ears.	English proverb
He wants to have a finger in every pie.	English proverb
The first blow is half the battle.	English proverb
Fire and water are good servants but bad masters.	English proverb
Well may he smell of fire whose gown burneth.	English proverb
He that would catch fish must not mind getting wet.	English proverb
'Tis good fish if it were but caught.	English proverb
The best fish are near the bottom.	English proverb
Make not fish of one, and flesh of another.	English proverb
Fish are not to be caught by a birdcall.	English proverb
There's as good fish in the sea as were ever caught.	English proverb
He fisheth on that catcheth one.	English proverb
It's good fishing in troubled waters.	English proverb
Every shoe fits not every foot.	English proverb
Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send thee flax.	English proverb
Where every hand fleeceth, the sheep go naked.	English proverb
Flowers are the pledge of fruit.	English proverb
It is one thing to flourish and another to fight.	English proverb
Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth.	English proverb
No one is a fool always; every one sometimes.	English proverb
A fool may ask more questions in half an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.	English proverb
A fool may give a wise man counsel.	English proverb
Every man is either a fool or a physician after thirty years of age.	English proverb
An old fool is the worst of fools.	English proverb
Better it is to meet a bear bereaved of her whelps, than a fool in his folly.	English proverb
As the fool thinks, so the bell chinks.	English proverb
Fools set stools for wise folk to stumble at.	English proverb
Fools build houses, and wise men buy them.	English proverb
Forbearance is no acquittance.	English proverb
Forced fruits fail in flavour.	English proverb
Forecast is better than work hard.	English proverb
The foremost dog catches the hare.	English proverb
To forget a wrong is the best revenge.	English proverb
Eaten bread is soon forgotten.	English proverb
Every man is the architect of his fortune.	English proverb
Change of fortune is the lot of life.	English proverb
Better a fortune in her than on her.	English proverb
When fortune smiles take the advantage.	English proverb
Fortune knocks once at least at every man's gate.	English proverb
Foul hands befoul all they touch.	English proverb
Four farthings and a thimble make a tailor's pocket jingle.	English proverb
The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him.	English proverb
A fox should not be of the jury at a goose trial.	English proverb
When the fox preaches, beware of your geese.	English proverb
Foxes, when they cannot reach the grapes, say they are not ripe.	English proverb
Though the fox runs the chicken hath wings.	English proverb
He that sings on Friday shall weep on Sunday.	English proverb
A friend is not so soon gotten as lost.	English proverb
A friend in need is a friend indeed.	English proverb
He loseth nothing who keeps God for his friend.	English proverb
Make not thy friend too cheap to thee, nor thyself to thy friend.	English proverb
All are not friends that speak us fair.	English proverb
Love and lordship never like friendship.	English proverb
What God will, no frost can kill.	English proverb
So many frosts in March, so many in May.	English proverb
Such as the tree is, such is the fruit.	English proverb
If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower.	English proverb
Frugality makes an easy chair for old age.	English proverb
Out of the frying-pan into the fire.	English proverb
Take away fuel, take away flame.	English proverb
A full purse makes the mouth to speak.	English proverb
A full purse never lacketh friends.	English proverb
Touch a galled horse, and he will wince.	English proverb
Many things grow in the garden that were never planted there.	English proverb
Gems must not be valued by what they are set in.	English proverb
Gentility without ability is worse than plain beggary.	English proverb
Gentle strokes make the sweetest harmony.	English proverb
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.	English proverb
A gift with a kind countenance is a double gift.	English proverb
To give and keep there is need of wit.	English proverb
He giveth twice who gives in a trice.	English proverb
A man of gladness seldom falls into madness.	English proverb
What your glass tells you will not be told by counsel.	English proverb
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.	English proverb
The more women look in their glasses, the less they look to their houses.	English proverb
All that glitters is not gold.	English proverb
Men strain at gnats, and swallow camels!	English proverb
If you want a thing done, go; if not, send.	English proverb
Better go about than fall into the ditch.	English proverb
God sends meat, and the devil sends cooks.	English proverb
One God, no more; but friends good store.	English proverb
When the child is christened, you may have godfathers enough.	English proverb
When God wills, all winds bring rain.	English proverb
Gold alone makes not prosperity.	English proverb
Gold goes in at any gate, except Heaven's.	English proverb
We must not look for a golden life in an iron age.	English proverb
Do all the good you talk of; but talk not of all the good you do.	English proverb
No man knows better what good is than he that has an endured evil.	English proverb
Though good be good yet better carries it.	English proverb
When good cheer is lacking our friends will be packing.	English proverb
A good word is as soon said as an ill one.	English proverb
Good counsel never comes too late.	English proverb
He's a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.	English proverb
Good harvests make men prodigal, bad ones provident.	English proverb
A good maxim is never out of season.	English proverb
It is no use throwing good money after bad.	English proverb
A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them.	English proverb
God reacheth us good things with our own hands.	English proverb
One can never have too much of a good thing.	English proverb
One never loseth by doing good turns.	English proverb
One good turn deserves another.	English proverb
The gown is hers who wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it.	English proverb
Grasp no more than thy hand will hold.	English proverb
Never split timber against the grain.	English proverb
While the grass grows the steed starves.	English proverb
Grass grows not upon the highway.	English proverb
We shall lie all alike in our graves.	English proverb
A great dowry is a bed full of troubles.	English proverb
There would be no great ones if there were no little.	English proverb
A great ship needs deep waters.	English proverb
A green winter makes a fat churchyard.	English proverb
Gray hairs are death's blossoms.	English proverb
Grief pent up will burst the heart.	English proverb
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.	English proverb
An unbidden guest must bring his own stool with him.	English proverb
'Tis an ill guest that never drinks to his host.	English proverb
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.	English proverb
Hail brings frost in the tail.	English proverb
Half a loaf is better than no bread.	English proverb
Better be half hanged than ill wed.	English proverb
A hand-saw is a good thing, but not to shave with.	English proverb
He knows not a hawk from a hand-saw.	English proverb
He who is not handsome at twenty, nor strong at thirty, nor wise at forty, nor rich at fifty, will never be handsome, strong, rich, or wise.	English proverb
He who is born to be hanged will never be drowned.	English proverb
One may as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.	English proverb
There are many ways of killing a dog beside hanging him.	English proverb
Where we least think, there goeth the hare away.	English proverb
"Hardly ever" saves many a lie.	English proverb
Little dogs start the hare, but great ones catch it.	English proverb
Sell not the hare's skin before you have caught him.	English proverb
Wise men learn by others' harms, fools by their own.	English proverb
He that hath a good harvest may be content with some thistles.	English proverb
Over haste makes certain waste.	English proverb
Haste over nothing but catching fleas.	English proverb
Hasty resolutions seldom speed well.	English proverb
Pull down your hat on the wind side.	English proverb
When the tree is down, every one runs with his hatchet.	English proverb
'Tis safe riding in a good haven.	English proverb
Make hay while the sun shines.	English proverb
Man is the head, but woman turns it.	English proverb
He that hath no head, needs no hat.	English proverb
Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a horse.	English proverb
When the head aches, all the body is the worse.	English proverb
A man is not so soon healed as hurt.	English proverb
God healeth, and the physician hath the thanks.	English proverb
What the heart thinketh, the tongue speaketh.	English proverb
Hearts may agree though heads differ.	English proverb
Where the hedge is lowest, men commonly leap over.	English proverb
A low hedge is easily leapt over.	English proverb
Hedges have eyes, and walls have ears.	English proverb
Good take heed doth surely speed.	English proverb
One pair of heels is often worth two pair of hands.	English proverb
It is a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.	English proverb
Love and a cough cannot be hid.	English proverb
Hide nothing from thy minister, physician, and lawyer.	English proverb
High places have their precipices.	English proverb
High winds blow on high hills.	English proverb
Every man is best known to himself.	English proverb
He is not wise that is not wise for himself.	English proverb
To fright a hind is not the way to catch her.	English proverb
The hindermost dog may catch the hare.	English proverb
Happy is the man that has a hobby.	English proverb
Every man has his hobby-horse.	English proverb
A hog in armour is still but a hog.	English proverb
Do not holloa till you are out of the wood.	English proverb
Home is home, be it ever so homely.	English proverb
Honesty is the best policy; but he who acts on this principle is not an honest man.	English proverb
A man never surfeits of too much honesty.	English proverb
Better poor with honour than rich with shame.	English proverb
Honour and ease are seldom bed-fellows.	English proverb
Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth.	English proverb
He giveth one knock on the hoop, and another on the barrel.	English proverb
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick.	English proverb
Hope humbles more than despair.	English proverb
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.	English proverb
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.	English proverb
All are not hunters that blow the horn.	English proverb
A good horse cannot be of a bad colour.	English proverb
A good horse often wants a good spur.	English proverb
'Tis an ill horse will not carry his own provender.	English proverb
One man may lead a horse to water, but fifty cannot make him drink.	English proverb
A hot May makes a fat churchyard.	English proverb
Hold not with the hounds and run with the hare.	English proverb
Better one's house too little one day, than too big all the year round.	English proverb
Wishers and woulders are never good householders.	English proverb
A noble housekeeper needs no doors.	English proverb
The stillest humours are always the worst.	English proverb
It is all one a hundred years hence.	English proverb
As well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.	English proverb
Hunger costs little; daintiness much.	English proverb
Hunger will break through stone walls.	English proverb
Hunger makes hard bones sweet beans.	English proverb
A hungry horse makes a clean manger.	English proverb
Hungry men think the cook lazy.	English proverb
Bitter is sweet to hungry men.	English proverb
Be a good husband, and you will get a penny to spend, a penny to lend, and a penny for a friend.	English proverb
In the husband wisdom, in the wife gentleness.	English proverb
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.	English proverb
Idle folk have the least leisure.	English proverb
Idle folk take the most pains.	English proverb
A young man idle, an old man needy.	English proverb
Better be idle than ill employed.	English proverb
Idleness is the key of beggary.	English proverb
Of idleness comes no goodness.	English proverb
Idleness is the root of all evil.	English proverb
Idleness must thank itself if it goes barefoot.	English proverb
The ignorant think all things wrong which they cannot understand.	English proverb
It is an ill bird that defiles its own nest.	English proverb
'Tis an ill dog that deserves not a bone.	English proverb
He who hath no ill fortune, is dazed with good.	English proverb
Ill gotten gains seldom prosper.	English proverb
When ill luck falls asleep, let nobody wake her.	English proverb
Nothing is impossible to a willing mind.	English proverb
Give him an inch, and he'll take an ell.	English proverb
God never measures men by inches.	English proverb
Industry is fortune's right hand and frugality her left.	English proverb
Jest not at another's infirmities.	English proverb
Ingratitude is the daughter of pride.	English proverb
He goes not out of his way that goes to a good inn.	English proverb
Woman's instinct is often truer than man's reasoning.	English proverb
Hell is paved with good intentions.	English proverb
He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool.	English proverb
Itch and ease can no man please.	English proverb
Jack-in-office is a great man.	English proverb
Who in Janiveer sows oats, gets gold and groats.	English proverb
Better lose a jest than a friend.	English proverb
Many a true word is spoken in jest.	English proverb
Jesting lies bring serious sorrows.	English proverb
Jests, like sweetmeats, are often sour sauce.	English proverb
'Tis a great journey to the world's end.	English proverb
Joy surfeited turns to sorrow.	English proverb
Judge not of men or things at first sight.	English proverb
Judge not a ship as she lies on the stocks.	English proverb
He hath a good judgment who is apt to distrust his own.	English proverb
Just is honest, and honest is just.	English proverb
Keep a thing seven years, and you will find a use for it.	English proverb
He that will eat the kernel, must crack the nut.	English proverb
The wife is the key of the house.	English proverb
All the keys hang not at one man's girdle.	English proverb
Wood half burnt is easily kindled.	English proverb
Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing.	English proverb
Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake.	English proverb
The taste of the kitchen is better than the smell.	English proverb
Silks and satins put out the fire in the kitchen.	English proverb
Knavery may serve for a turn, but honesty is best in the long run.	English proverb
Knaves and fools divide the world.	English proverb
When knaves fall out, true men come by their goods.	English proverb
He tied a knot with his tongue he couldn't undo with his teeth.	English proverb
Fools tie knots and wise men loose them.	English proverb
To split knotty timber use smooth wedges.	English proverb
Knowledge in youth is wisdom in age.	English proverb
The knowledge of the disease is half the cure.	English proverb
Knowledge, like physic, is more plague than profit, if it arrives too late.	English proverb
An ounce of knowledge may be worth a pound of comfort.	English proverb
He that labours and thrives, spins gold.	English proverb
Step after step the ladder is ascended.	English proverb
A woman's tongue wags like a lamb's tail.	English proverb
The lame goeth as far as the staggerer.	English proverb
After Lammas corn ripens as much by night as by day.	English proverb
Land was never lost for want of an heir.	English proverb
On a dark night an owl would be glad of a lantern.	English proverb
It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back.	English proverb
That's where the laugh comes in.	English proverb
They laugh the loudest who have least to lose.	English proverb
In a thousand pounds of law there's not an ounce of love.	English proverb
The law is not the same at morning and night.	English proverb
He that loves law will get his fill.	English proverb
Law makers should not be law breakers.	English proverb
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.	English proverb
A good lawyer, an evil neighbour.	English proverb
Fair and softly as lawyers go to heaven.	English proverb
Lazy folk take the most pains.	English proverb
A man may lead a horse to the water, but he cannot make him drink unless he will.	English proverb
'Tis folly to dig for lead with a silver shovel.	English proverb
A small leak will sink a great ship.	English proverb
Learning makes a man fit company for himself.	English proverb
The least boy always carries the greatest fiddle.	English proverb
He that doth not lend doth lose his friend.	English proverb
He would not lend his knife to the devil to stab himself.	English proverb
A liar should have a good memory.	English proverb
The greater truth, the greater libel.	English proverb
The liberal man deviseth liberal things.	English proverb
He lies as fast as a dog can trot.	English proverb
Life is full of hazards, which experience neither bought nor taught will always enable us to foresee.	English proverb
Life is half spent before we know what it is.	English proverb
Life lies not in living, but in liking.	English proverb
While there's life there's hope.	English proverb
Light gains make a heavy purse.	English proverb
Every one as they like best, as the good man said when he kissed his cow.	English proverb
The lion's not half so fierce as he's painted.	English proverb
Lips however rosy must be fed.	English proverb
Listeners never hear good of themselves.	English proverb
Little and often fills the purse.	English proverb
Little mother, little daughter.	English proverb
Little birds may peck a dead lion.	English proverb
Little boats must keep the shore.	English proverb
Little bodies have large souls.	English proverb
One may see day at a little hole.	English proverb
Little minds, like weak liquors, are soon soured.	English proverb
Little things please little minds.	English proverb
It's not how long, but how well, we live.	English proverb
The longest liver dies at last.	English proverb
He that lives not well one year sorrows for it seven.	English proverb
He liveth long that liveth well.	English proverb
A living dog is better than a dead lion.	English proverb
All lay load on the willing horse.	English proverb
You needn't lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.	English proverb
They look one way and row another.	English proverb
Long looked for comes at last.	English proverb
'Tis a long lane that has no turning.	English proverb
He that longs most lacks most.	English proverb
The longest day must have an end.	English proverb
The loquacity of fools is a warning to the wise.	English proverb
Losers are always in the wrong.	English proverb
'Tis not lost that comes at last.	English proverb
Love is the touchstone of virtue.	English proverb
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.	English proverb
They love too much who die for love.	English proverb
Whom we love best to them we can say least.	English proverb
Lovers live on love, as larks on leeks.	English proverb
Give a man luck, and throw him into the sea.	English proverb
The devil's children have the devil's luck.	English proverb
It is better to be born lucky than rich.	English proverb
It's better to be lucky than wise.	English proverb
Never leave a friend in the lurch.	English proverb
Maidens must be seen and not heard.	English proverb
A man at five may be a fool at fifteen.	English proverb
Man doth what he can, and God what He will.	English proverb
A bushel of March dust is worth a king's ransom.	English proverb
A man must sell his ware at the rate of the market.	English proverb
Forsake not the market for the toll.	English proverb
If fools went not to market, bad ware would not be sold.	English proverb
Three women and a goose make a market.	English proverb
An ill marriage is a spring of ill fortune.	English proverb
Marriage halves our griefs, and doubles our joys.	English proverb
He who marries for wealth sells his liberty.	English proverb
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.	English proverb
He that will too soon be his own master, will have a fool for his scholar.	English proverb
No man is his craft's master the first day.	English proverb
Marry above your match and you get a master.	English proverb
One eye of the master sees more than four of the servants'.	English proverb
Of all the crafts honesty is the master-craft.	English proverb
The master's eye makes the horse fat.	English proverb
The master's eye does more work than his hands.	English proverb
Matrimony's a matter of money.	English proverb
Every "may be" hath a "may not be."	English proverb
A windy March and a rainy April make a beautiful May.	English proverb
With what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again.	English proverb
Measure twice before you cut once.	English proverb
He measures your corn by his bushel.	English proverb
Meat is much, but manners is more.	English proverb
There's a medium between painting the face and not washing it.	English proverb
Medlars are never good till they be rotten.	English proverb
Time and straw make medlars ripe.	English proverb
If every one would mend one, all would be mended.	English proverb
Cry you mercy, who killed my cat?	English proverb
He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.	English proverb
It's good to be merry and wise.	English proverb
It is good to be merry at meat.	English proverb
Merry meet, merry part, merry meet again.	English proverb
As long lives a merry heart as a sad.	English proverb
Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse.	English proverb
Milk which will not be made into butter must be made into cheese.	English proverb
Who would keep a cow when he may have a bottle of milk for a penny!	English proverb
I can see as far into a millstone as the picker.	English proverb
The lower millstone grinds as well as the upper.	English proverb
A woman's mind and winter wind often change.	English proverb
A wise man changes his mind; a fool never.	English proverb
A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow.	English proverb
A little mischief is too much.	English proverb
Mischiefs come by the pound and go away by the ounce.	English proverb
Misfortunes seldom come alone.	English proverb
Misunderstanding brings lies to town.	English proverb
The mob has many heads, but no brains.	English proverb
Modesty is the handmaid of virtue.	English proverb
Money is more easily made than made use of.	English proverb
The abundance of money ruins youth.	English proverb
A fool and his money are soon parted.	English proverb
A fool may make money, but a wise man should spend it.	English proverb
'Tis money makes the mare to go.	English proverb
He that hath no money needeth no purse.	English proverb
The moon's not seen where the sun shines.	English proverb
The more the merrier; the fewer the better cheer.	English proverb
Lose an hour in the morning, and you'll be all day hunting for it.	English proverb
The morning sun never lasts a day.	English proverb
Do as most do, and fewest will speak ill of thee.	English proverb
The mother's breath is always sweet.	English proverb
A mother's heart never grows old.	English proverb
An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of clergy.	English proverb
Never make a mountain of a mole-hill.	English proverb
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, let Mahomet go to the mountain.	English proverb
Mouth civility costs little but is worth less.	English proverb
He that sends mouths sends meat.	English proverb
A fool demands much, but he's a greater that gives it.	English proverb
Much is expected where much is given.	English proverb
Much would have more, and lost all.	English proverb
Muddles at home make husbands roam.	English proverb
Music helps not the toothache.	English proverb
Where music is no harm can be.	English proverb
When a musician hath forgot his note, he makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat.	English proverb
It's no use looking for musk in a dog's kennel.	English proverb
A good name is better than riches.	English proverb
A good name keeps its lustre in the dark.	English proverb
Take away my good name, and take away my life.	English proverb
Necessity is the mother of invention.	English proverb
To look for a needle in a pottle of hay.	English proverb
Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge.	English proverb
Neighbour-quart is good quart.	English proverb
You must ask your neighbour if you shall live in peace.	English proverb
When thy neighbour's house is on fire, be careful of thine own.	English proverb
All is fish that comes to his net.	English proverb
A nimble ninepence is better than a slow shilling.	English proverb
The more noble the more humble.	English proverb
The great Homer himself sometimes nods.	English proverb
It is the part of a wise man to take no notice of many things.	English proverb
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.	English proverb
Doing nothing is the hardest work.	English proverb
Nothing came out of the sack but what was in it.	English proverb
It is more painful to do nothing than something.	English proverb
The nurse's tongue is privileged to talk.	English proverb
You may as well bid me lade the sea with a nutshell.	English proverb
An oak is not felled by one blow.	English proverb
An occasion lost cannot be redeemed.	English proverb
When old age is evil, youth can learn no good.	English proverb
An old cat laps as much as a young kitten.	English proverb
As the old cock crows so crows the young.	English proverb
An old dog will learn no tricks.	English proverb
Old fools are the worst of fools.	English proverb
Old friends to meet, old wine to drink, and old wood to burn.	English proverb
Old friends and old wine are best.	English proverb
An old sack wanteth much patching.	English proverb
You can't make omelettes without breaking eggs.	English proverb
Make much of one, good men are scarce.	English proverb
The mouse that hath but one hole is easily taken.	English proverb
Too much of one thing is good for nothing.	English proverb
Opportunity lingers sometimes.	English proverb
In an orderly house all is soon ready.	English proverb
Evening orts are good morning fodder.	English proverb
Some are wise, and some are otherwise.	English proverb
Do what thou ought, let come what may.	English proverb
Be not too hasty to outbid another.	English proverb
None is so wise but the fool overtakes him sometimes.	English proverb
Oysters are not good in the month that hath not an R in it.	English proverb
A man may cause his own dog to bite him.	English proverb
Pain is forgotten where gain follows.	English proverb
Great pain and little gain make a man soon weary.	English proverb
Pains are the wages of ill-pleasures.	English proverb
On painting and fighting look aloof off.	English proverb
Pardon all men, but never thyself.	English proverb
Study to be worthy of your parents.	English proverb
A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him.	English proverb
Patch and sit long, build and soon flit.	English proverb
Patience is a flower that grows not in every one's garden.	English proverb
Patience is a plaister for all sores.	English proverb
He that pays last never pays twice.	English proverb
He who hath most peas may put most in the pot.	English proverb
A small pack suits a small pedlar.	English proverb
Let every pedlar carry his own pack.	English proverb
Pen and ink are a wit's plough.	English proverb
That penny is well spent that saves a groat.	English proverb
A penny in my purse will bid me drink when all my friends I have will not.	English proverb
A penny in your pocket is a good companion.	English proverb
In for a penny, in for a pound.	English proverb
Pepper is black, yet it hath a good smack.	English proverb
The topmost branch is not the safest perch.	English proverb
Peril proves who dearly loves.	English proverb
The persuasion of the fortunate sways the doubtful.	English proverb
Painted pictures are dead speakers.	English proverb
You can't make a horn of a pig's tail.	English proverb
Sleep on it; the pillow is the best counsellor.	English proverb
Every man is a pilot in a calm sea.	English proverb
He that will not stoop for a pin, shall never be worth a point.	English proverb
A pin a day is a groat a year.	English proverb
No one knows where the shoe pinches so well as him who wears it.	English proverb
He can ill pipe that wants his upper lip.	English proverb
The pitcher does not go so often to the water, but it comes home broken at last.	English proverb
Pity, promises, and blame, are always cheap and plentiful.	English proverb
Sit in your place, and none can make you rise.	English proverb
A place for everything, and everything in its place.	English proverb
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.	English proverb
If you play with a fool at home, he'll play with you in the market.	English proverb
Make not a toil of your pleasure.	English proverb
Don't stop the plough to catch a mouse.	English proverb
A man must plough with such oxen as he hath.	English proverb
Poor folk are glad of pottage.	English proverb
He that would be Pope must think of nothing else.	English proverb
Possession is nine points of the law, and they say there are but ten.	English proverb
The pot calls the kettle black.	English proverb
Poverty is the mother of health.	English proverb
When poverty comes in at the door, friendship leaps out of the window.	English proverb
Poverty parteth good fellowship.	English proverb
Poverty makes a man acquainted with strange bed-fellows.	English proverb
True praise takes root and spreads.	English proverb
Neither praise nor dispraise thyself, thine actions serve the turn.	English proverb
Never sound the trumpet of your own praise.	English proverb
Old praise dies, unless you feed it.	English proverb
Prate is but prate; 'tis money buys land.	English proverb
He that would learn to pray let him go to sea.	English proverb
Prevention is better than cure.	English proverb
Pride goes before, and shame follows after.	English proverb
Procrastination is the thief of time.	English proverb
He is poor indeed that cannot promise nothing.	English proverb
Be slow to promise, but quick to perform.	English proverb
Apt to promise, apt to forget.	English proverb
Promises are too much like pie-crusts, made to be broken.	English proverb
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.	English proverb
Prosperity gains friends, adversity tries them.	English proverb
There's nothing agrees worse than a proud mind and a beggar's purse.	English proverb
Proverbs are the texts of common life.	English proverb
Pry not into other people's affairs.	English proverb
He that pryeth into every cloud, may be stricken with a thunder-bolt.	English proverb
It is easier to pull down than to build.	English proverb
Punctuality begets confidence.	English proverb
Many without punishment, none without sin.	English proverb
Let your purse be your master.	English proverb
You cannot make a purse of a sow's ear.	English proverb
A full purse maketh the mouth to speak.	English proverb
He that shows his purse longs to be rid of it.	English proverb
A heavy purse makes a light heart.	English proverb
He who gets four pounds and spends five has no need of a purse.	English proverb
Wrinkled purses make wrinkled faces.	English proverb
Don't quarrel with the beggar for his bone.	English proverb
To cast oil in the fire is not the way to quench it.	English proverb
The devil can quote Scripture to suit his purpose.	English proverb
A ragged colt may make a good horse.	English proverb
After rain comes fair weather.	English proverb
Raise no more spirits than you can conjure down.	English proverb
He is a real friend who assists one in a pinch.	English proverb
If we do not hear reason she will one day make herself be heard.	English proverb
There's reason in roasting of eggs.	English proverb
The receiver is as bad as the thief.	English proverb
If there were no receivers there would be no thieves.	English proverb
Reckless youth makes rueful age.	English proverb
He that reckons without his host must reckon again.	English proverb
Fools always come short of their reckoning.	English proverb
Short reckonings make long friends.	English proverb
Reconcile yourself to present trials, the future may bring worse.	English proverb
A good recorder sets all in order.	English proverb
Men hold the reins, but the women tell them which way to drive.	English proverb
Better wear a cloak for religion than religion for a cloak.	English proverb
Remove an old tree and it will wither.	English proverb
A plant often removed cannot thrive.	English proverb
A smart reproof is better than smooth deceit.	English proverb
A story never loses by re-telling.	English proverb
To forget wrong is the greatest revenge.	English proverb
God help the rich, the poor can beg.	English proverb
Riches are like muck, which stink in a heap, but spread abroad make the earth fruitful.	English proverb
Riches are but the baggage of fortune.	English proverb
Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.	English proverb
Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth.	English proverb
He that riseth betimes hath something in his head.	English proverb
Follow the river and you'll get to the sea.	English proverb
A bird can roost upon but one branch.	English proverb
A rolling stone gathers no moss.	English proverb
When you are at Rome, do as Rome does.	English proverb
He that will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.	English proverb
The fairest rose at last is withered.	English proverb
A rotten apple injures its companions.	English proverb
A rugged stone grows smooth from hand to hand.	English proverb
There is no rule without an exception.	English proverb
Love rules his kingdom without a sword.	English proverb
He that runs fastest gets the prize.	English proverb
He that runs fast will not run long.	English proverb
It's a bad sack will abide no clouting.	English proverb
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.	English proverb
Set the saddle on the right horse.	English proverb
Sadness and gladness succeed each other.	English proverb
Make not your sail too large for your ship.	English proverb
Salmon and sermon have their season in Lent.	English proverb
Catch a bird by putting salt on its tail.	English proverb
What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.	English proverb
Sweet meat must have some sauce.	English proverb
Who will not save a penny, shall never have many.	English proverb
It's useless saving at the spigot and spending at the bung-hole.	English proverb
Saying and doing are two things.	English proverb
If a man says little he thinks the more.	English proverb
One scabbed sheep infects the whole flock.	English proverb
Scald not your lips in another man's pottage.	English proverb
A scalded cat fears cold water.	English proverb
A sceptre is one thing, a ladle another.	English proverb
The greatest scholars are not always the wisest men.	English proverb
A Scotch mist will wet an Englishman through to the skin.	English proverb
On the sea sail; on the land settle.	English proverb
Everything is good in its season.	English proverb
To everything there is a season; and a time to every purpose under heaven.	English proverb
'Tis the second blow that makes a fray.	English proverb
He that revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave.	English proverb
Seek till you find, and you'll lose no labour.	English proverb
Self love's a mote in every man's eye.	English proverb
Self praise is no recommendation.	English proverb
Good servants make good masters.	English proverb
Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance.	English proverb
It's ill shaving against the wool.	English proverb
Ships fear fire more than water.	English proverb
The finest shoe often hurts the foot.	English proverb
To know where the shoe pinches.	English proverb
Every man will shoot at the enemy, but few will go to fetch the shaft.	English proverb
Keep thy shop, and thy shop will keep thee.	English proverb
God tempers the wind to the shorn sheep.	English proverb
Short cuts are sometimes longest.	English proverb
Short reckonings are soon cleared.	English proverb
Short and sweet like a donkey's gallop.	English proverb
Every one can tame a shrew but he that hath her.	English proverb
Silence is the best ornament of a woman.	English proverb
White silver draws black lines.	English proverb
He was born with a silver spoon in his mouth.	English proverb
A bird that can sing and won't sing, must be made to sing.	English proverb
None but fools and fiddlers sing at their meat.	English proverb
As good sit still as rise up and fall.	English proverb
Few people are out of the reach of slander.	English proverb
Slander leaves a score behind it.	English proverb
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth two hours after.	English proverb
There is sleeping enough in the grave.	English proverb
Better that the feet slip than the tongue.	English proverb
Sloth turneth the edge of wit.	English proverb
Sloth is the mother of poverty.	English proverb
Sluts are good enough to make slovens' pottage.	English proverb
Better are small fish than an empty dish.	English proverb
Small things affect light minds.	English proverb
He that despiseth small things shall fall by little and little.	English proverb
Where there is smoke there is fire.	English proverb
Put a snake in your bosom, and when it is warm it will sting you.	English proverb
He that goes softly goes surely.	English proverb
Soft words butter no parsnips.	English proverb
Soldiers in peace are like chimneys in summer.	English proverb
Sorrow and bad weather come unsent for.	English proverb
A fat sorrow is better than a lean one.	English proverb
Sorrow is good for nothing but sin.	English proverb
Sorrow will wear away in time.	English proverb
When sorrow is asleep, wake it not.	English proverb
Sorrow comes unsent for, and, like the unbidden guest, brings his own stool.	English proverb
He goes a-sorrowing, who goes a-borrowing.	English proverb
"Sour grapes," as the fox said when he could not reach them.	English proverb
Who sows in May gets little that way.	English proverb
What a man sows, that shall he also reap.	English proverb
'Tis too late, to spare when the bottom is bare.	English proverb
It is better to spare at the brim than the bottom.	English proverb
Spare when young and spend when old.	English proverb
Spare to speak and spare to spend.	English proverb
There is a time to speak as well as to be silent.	English proverb
Many speak much that cannot speak well.	English proverb
Speak fair and think what you will.	English proverb
Speculation completes what extravagance began.	English proverb
Speech is the picture of the mind.	English proverb
Spend not where you may save; spare not where you must spend.	English proverb
Carefully spend, and God will send.	English proverb
Spend and be free, but make no waste.	English proverb
To a good spender God is the treasurer.	English proverb
Great spenders are bad lenders.	English proverb
You may know by a penny how a shilling spends.	English proverb
It is the thrift of a spendthrift which ruins him most effectually.	English proverb
Who hath spice enough may season his meat as he pleaseth.	English proverb
Don't cut your nose off to spite your face.	English proverb
Who spits against the wind spits in his own face.	English proverb
Too many cooks spoil the broth.	English proverb
Spoil not the ship for a penn'orth of tar.	English proverb
Better be ill spoken of by one before all, than by all before one.	English proverb
It's poor sport that is not worth the candle.	English proverb
Rich men's spots are covered with money.	English proverb
Throw a sprat to catch a whale.	English proverb
Being born in a stable does not make a man a horse.	English proverb
An ill stake standeth longest.	English proverb
Standers by see more than the gamesters.	English proverb
The higher the standing the lower the fall.	English proverb
Stars are not seen during sunshine.	English proverb
He would starve in a cook-shop.	English proverb
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.	English proverb
He that will steal a pin will steal a better thing.	English proverb
One man may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge.	English proverb
When the steed is stolen the stable door shall be shut.	English proverb
Step by step the ladder is climbed.	English proverb
Little sticks kindle the fire, but great ones put it out.	English proverb
He that will not go over the stile must be thrust through the gate.	English proverb
Trust not still water nor a silent man.	English proverb
Keep me from still water; from that which is rough I can keep myself.	English proverb
Whoso lacketh a stock, his gain's not worth a chip.	English proverb
The full stomach loatheth the honeycomb, but to the hungry every bitter thing is sweet.	English proverb
With stomach, wife, and conscience keep on good terms.	English proverb
Between two stools he comes to the ground.	English proverb
He must stoop that hath a low door.	English proverb
One story is good until another's told.	English proverb
Straight trees have crooked roots.	English proverb
No striving against the stream.	English proverb
Weight and measure take away strife.	English proverb
Haste makes waste, and waste makes want, and want makes strife between the good man and his wife.	English proverb
Little strokes fell great oaks.	English proverb
Morning is the time for study.	English proverb
He that runs in the night stumbles.	English proverb
He that stumbles twice over the same stone, deserves to break his shins.	English proverb
'Tis a good horse that never stumbles, and a good wife that never grumbles.	English proverb
The subjects' love is the king's lifeguard.	English proverb
Nothing succeeds like success.	English proverb
The young suckers drain the old tree.	English proverb
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.	English proverb
That suit is best that best fits me.	English proverb
No sunshine but hath some shadow.	English proverb
Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt.	English proverb
Light suppers make long lives.	English proverb
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.	English proverb
One swallow does not make a summer.	English proverb
One swallow makes not a spring, nor one woodcock a winter.	English proverb
They have need of a besom that sweep the house with a turf.	English proverb
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.	English proverb
He must needs swim that's held up by the chin.	English proverb
Never trust yourself out of your depth till you can swim.	English proverb
He that strikes with the sword shall be beaten with the scabbard.	English proverb
Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away the scabbard.	English proverb
A poor man's table is soon spread.	English proverb
Who depends upon another man's table often dines late.	English proverb
Remove the tale-bearer and contention ceaseth.	English proverb
Talk of the devil and his imp appears.	English proverb
The greatest talkers are always the least doers.	English proverb
To him that hath lost his taste, sweet is sour.	English proverb
He teacheth ill who teacheth all.	English proverb
Nothing dries up sooner than tears.	English proverb
A man may dig his grave with his teeth.	English proverb
Temperance is the best physic.	English proverb
The tempter is the greater rogue.	English proverb
He loseth his thanks who promiseth and delayeth.	English proverb
When I have thatched his house he would throw me down.	English proverb
Give a thief rope enough and he'll hang himself.	English proverb
The thief's sorry because he is caught, not because he is the thief.	English proverb
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.	English proverb
One may think that dares not speak.	English proverb
Think twice before you speak once.	English proverb
Think much, speak little, and write less.	English proverb
The horse thinks one thing, and he that rides him another.	English proverb
Gather thistles, expect prickles.	English proverb
He that sows nothing plants thistles.	English proverb
The thorn comes forth with his point forwards.	English proverb
He that handles thorns shall prick his fingers.	English proverb
There are more threatened than struck.	English proverb
If you make not much of threepence you'll ne'er be worth a groat.	English proverb
Thrifty men are fond of thrifty sayings.	English proverb
Thunder in December foretells fine weather.	English proverb
When it thunders the thief becomes honest.	English proverb
For what thou canst do thyself rely not on another.	English proverb
There is a tide in the affairs of man which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.	English proverb
The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings.	English proverb
A mouse, in time, may bite in two a cable.	English proverb
Take time when time is, for time will away.	English proverb
Time and tide tarry for no man.	English proverb
Time assuages the greatest grief.	English proverb
Time is the rider that breaks youth.	English proverb
Simon Noland, clown, is a better style and title than Humphrey Hadland, gent.	English proverb
A man may hold his tongue in an ill time.	English proverb
Confine your tongue, lest it confine you.	English proverb
Keep your tongue within your teeth.	English proverb
The tongue's not steel, yet it cuts.	English proverb
The tongue talks at the head's cost.	English proverb
One tongue is enough for a woman.	English proverb
Who has not a good tongue, ought to have good hands.	English proverb
Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.	English proverb
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.	English proverb
What is a workman without his tools?	English proverb
He that grasps at too much, holds fast nothing.	English proverb
He that hath a trade hath an estate.	English proverb
Trade knows neither friends nor kindred.	English proverb
Jack of all trades, and master of none.	English proverb
A tradesman who gets not loseth.	English proverb
He that travels far knows much.	English proverb
A tree is known by its fruit, and not by its leaves.	English proverb
Remove an old tree and it will wither to death.	English proverb
Set trees poor, and they will grow rich; set them rich, and they will grow poor.	English proverb
You cannot see wood for trees.	English proverb
Fall not out with a friend for a trifle.	English proverb
He who seeketh trouble never misseth it.	English proverb
Never fish in troubled waters.	English proverb
Never make troubles of trifles.	English proverb
Hidden troubles disquiet most.	English proverb
There's many a true word spoken in jest.	English proverb
That is true which all men say.	English proverb
Trust in God, and keep your powder dry.	English proverb
Trust not a horse's heel, nor a dog's tooth.	English proverb
Truth is stranger than fiction.	English proverb
Speak the truth and shame the devil.	English proverb
Truth hath a good face, but bad clothes.	English proverb
Truth may be blamed, but it can't be shamed.	English proverb
Try your friend before you trust him.	English proverb
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.	English proverb
Swine, women, and bees are not to be turned.	English proverb
At twelfth-day the days are lengthened a cock's stride.	English proverb
If things were to be done twice, all would be wise.	English proverb
Never carry two faces under one hat.	English proverb
Two heads are better than one.	English proverb
One cannot be in two places at once.	English proverb
When two Sundays come in one week--that is, never.	English proverb
An unhappy lad may make a good man.	English proverb
The greatest number is made up of units.	English proverb
Better untaught than ill-taught.	English proverb
Use the means, and God will give the blessing.	English proverb
Utility is preferable to grandeur.	English proverb
He who stays in the valley will never get over the hill.	English proverb
Valour can do little without discretion.	English proverb
Valour that parleys is near yielding.	English proverb
Venture a small fish to catch a great one.	English proverb
Fools think themselves wise to the very last.	English proverb
The vicar of Bray will be vicar of Bray still.	English proverb
Vice is nourished by being concealed.	English proverb
Make the vine poor, and it will make you rich.	English proverb
The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar.	English proverb
Search others for their virtues, thyself for their faults.	English proverb
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.	English proverb
He who serves well need not be afraid to ask his wages.	English proverb
He that waits on another man's trencher, makes many a late dinner.	English proverb
The worth of a thing is best known by the want of it.	English proverb
For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost.	English proverb
War, hunting, and law, are as full of trouble as pleasure.	English proverb
Who preacheth war is the devil's chaplain.	English proverb
He that makes a good war makes a good peace.	English proverb
Good wares make quick markets.	English proverb
He that is warm thinks all are so.	English proverb
He is wise enough that can keep himself warm in winter.	English proverb
There's no washing the blackamore white.	English proverb
Wilful waste makes woeful want.	English proverb
Good watch prevents misfortune.	English proverb
You may be a wise man though you cannot make a watch.	English proverb
We never know the worth of water till the well is dry.	English proverb
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.	English proverb
Where there's a will there's a way.	English proverb
There are more ways to kill a dog than hanging.	English proverb
To him that wills ways are not wanting.	English proverb
Let the weakest go to the wall.	English proverb
Where it is weakest there the thread breaketh.	English proverb
Their folly pleads the privilege of wealth.	English proverb
The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches.	English proverb
Everything is the worse for wearing.	English proverb
'Tis pity fair weather should do any harm.	English proverb
Any flat can talk of change of weather.	English proverb
Wedding and ill-wintering tame both man and beast.	English proverb
Who weds ere he be wise shall die ere he thrive.	English proverb
As great a pity to see a woman weep, as to see a goose go barefoot.	English proverb
As welcome as the flowers in May.	English proverb
"Welcome death," quoth the rat, when the trap fell down.	English proverb
Welcome is the best dish on the table.	English proverb
When the well is dug it is easy enough to pump.	English proverb
All things are soon prepared in a well-ordered house.	English proverb
Well-drawn wells give the sweetest water.	English proverb
I wept when I was born, and every day shows why.	English proverb
You may pay too dear for your whistle.	English proverb
There's ne'er a why, but there's a wherefore.	English proverb
Wide will wear but narrow will tear.	English proverb
Choose your wife on Saturday, and not on a Sunday.	English proverb
He that goes far from home for a wife, either intends to cheat or will be cheated.	English proverb
A man's best fortune or his worst is his wife.	English proverb
There is one good wife in the country, and every man thinks he hath her.	English proverb
A good wife makes a good husband.	English proverb
He that tells his wife news is but newly married.	English proverb
Happy is he who hath sown his wild oats betimes.	English proverb
Wise men are not caught by wiles.	English proverb
If wilful will to water, wilful must be drowned.	English proverb
They that cannot do as they will, must do as they can.	English proverb
If one will not, another will.	English proverb
Where the will is ready, the feet are light.	English proverb
Willows are weak, yet they bend other wood.	English proverb
It's an ill wind that blows nobody good.	English proverb
None ever yet got fat on windfalls.	English proverb
You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows.	English proverb
More have been drowned in wine than water.	English proverb
Wine is the master's, but the goodness is the drawer's.	English proverb
Wine is a turncoat, first a friend, then an enemy.	English proverb
A wink's as good as a nod to a blind horse.	English proverb
A good winter brings a good summer.	English proverb
Winter finds out what summer lays up.	English proverb
By wisdom peace, by peace plenty.	English proverb
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.	English proverb
Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly.	English proverb
Wise men care not for what they cannot have.	English proverb
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.	English proverb
If wishes were thrushes, beggars would eat birds.	English proverb
If wishes would bide, beggars would ride.	English proverb
If wishes were butter-cakes, beggars would bite.	English proverb
Wit is the lightning of the mind.	English proverb
You may truss up all his wit in an egg-shell.	English proverb
Wit ill applied is a dangerous weapon.	English proverb
Wit is folly, unless a wise man hath the keeping of it.	English proverb
He that lives upon his wits, breaks for want of stock.	English proverb
A man cannot both wive and thrive in a year.	English proverb
He had enough to keep the wolf from the door.	English proverb
Wolves lose their teeth, but not their memory.	English proverb
A woman's strength is in her tongue.	English proverb
A woman's work is never at an end.	English proverb
Women must have their wills while they live, because they make none when they die.	English proverb
To woo is a pleasure in young men, a fault in old.	English proverb
One woodcock does not make a winter.	English proverb
Many go for wool and come back shorn.	English proverb
Wool sellers know wool buyers.	English proverb
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.	English proverb
Words are like weights, gravity gives them effect.	English proverb
Words are for women, actions for men.	English proverb
Words spoken in an evening the wind carrieth away.	English proverb
Fair words butter no parsnips.	English proverb
Fair words will not keep a cat from starving.	English proverb
Good words cool more than cold water.	English proverb
Many words will not fill a bushel.	English proverb
Soft words hurt not the mouth.	English proverb
They that will not work in heat, must hunger in frost.	English proverb
Bad workmen always complain of their tools.	English proverb
One half of the world knows not how the other half lives.	English proverb
The world is his who knows how to wait for it.	English proverb
The world was never so dull but if one won't another will.	English proverb
This world is nothing except it tend to the next.	English proverb
There needs a long time to know the world's pulse.	English proverb
Tread on a worm and it will turn.	English proverb
When things get to the worst, they'll mend.	English proverb
The worst spoke in the cart-wheel breaks first.	English proverb
Wounds may heal, but not those made by ill words.	English proverb
A soft answer turneth away wrath.	English proverb
He that is thrown would ever wrestle.	English proverb
He who maketh others wretched is himself a wretch, whether prince or peasant.	English proverb
Two wrongs will not make a right.	English proverb
To take the wrong sow by the ear.	English proverb
Say no ill of the year till it is passed.	English proverb
Yorkshire fashion--every man pay his share.	English proverb
Help yourself and your friends will like you.	English proverb
If you want a thing done, do it yourself.	English proverb
A growing youth hath a wolf in his stomach.	English proverb
Youth and white paper take any impression.	English proverb
Zeal without knowledge is fire without light.	English proverb
Zeal without knowledge is frenzy.	English proverb
On a fool’s beard the barber learns to shave.	French proverb
A beau demandeur, beau refuseur.	French proverb
He may lie boldly who comes from afar.	French proverb
A good dog never gets a good bone.	French proverb
An eel escapes from a good fisherman.	French proverb
God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.	French proverb
When the cat’s away the mice will play.	French proverb
At shrove-tide every one has need of his frying-pan.	French proverb
To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake.	French proverb
Every one feels his own burden heavy.	French proverb
No grass grows on a beaten road.	French proverb
When a thing is done advice comes too late.	French proverb
From confessors, doctors, and lawyers, do not conceal the truth of your case.	French proverb
Farewell baskets, the vintage is ended.	French proverb
For a stubborn ass a hard goad.	French proverb
A covetous woman deserves a swindling gallant.	French proverb
By dint of going wrong all will come right.	French proverb
To a rogue a rogue and a half.	French proverb
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.	French proverb
To a bold man fortune holds out her hand.	French proverb
Help thyself and heaven will help thee.	French proverb
Love me a little, but love me long.	French proverb
To love and to be wise are two different things.	French proverb
The fox says of the mulberries when he cannot get at them: they are not good at all.	French proverb
By candle-light a goat looks like a lady.	French proverb
In the end it will be known who ate the bacon.	French proverb
At the wars as they do at the wars.	French proverb
One grows used to love and to fire.	French proverb
Eggs are put to hatch on chance.	French proverb
No one is bound to do impossibilities.	French proverb
To go mulberry-gathering without a crook.	French proverb
To go to the vintage without baskets.	French proverb
The workman is known by his work.	French proverb
You may know the lion by his claw.	French proverb
He pulls at a long rope who desires another’s death.	French proverb
A mal enfourner on fait les pains cornus.	French proverb
An easy shepherd makes the wolf void wool.	French proverb
Flies will not light on a boiling pot.	French proverb
There’s no showing the wolf to a bad dog.	French proverb
A vicious dog must be tied short.	French proverb
Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird.	French proverb
A restive morsel needs a spur of wine.	French proverb
The friendship of great men is like the shadow of a bush, soon gone.	French proverb
Love does much, money everything.	French proverb
Love, a cough, smoke, and money, cannot long be hid.	French proverb
Love, a cough, and smoke will not remain secret.	French proverb
A nouveaux seigneurs nouvelles lois.	French proverb
He cannot be a friend to any one who is his own enemy.	French proverb
A paroles lourdes oreilles sourdes.	French proverb
A miserly father makes a prodigal son.	French proverb
Upon a slight pretext the wolf takes the sheep.	French proverb
At a little fountain one drinks at one’s ease.	French proverb
A little pack serves a little pedlar.	French proverb
After mischance every one is wise.	French proverb
After a feast a man scratches his head.	French proverb
After the act wishing is in vain.	French proverb
Ill-luck is good for something.	French proverb
A qui il meschet on lui meffaict.	French proverb
A raconter ses maux souvent on les soulage.	French proverb
Money borrowed is soon sorrowed.	French proverb
The money paid, the workman’s arm is broken.	French proverb
For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver.	French proverb
He slumbers enough who does nothing.	French proverb
He flays enough who holds the foot.	French proverb
He gains enough who loses sorrow.	French proverb
There’s not enough if there’s not too much.	French proverb
He knows enough who knows how to live and keep his own counsel.	French proverb
That is done soon enough which is well done.	French proverb
Too late the bird cries out when it is caught.	French proverb
For a web begun God sends thread.	French proverb
Everything must have a beginning.	French proverb
For overbuying there’s no help but selling again.	French proverb
A friend is known in time of need.	French proverb
To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow.	French proverb
Married to-day, marred to-morrow.	French proverb
The one-eyed are kings in the land of the blind.	French proverb
God puts a good root in the little pig’s way.	French proverb
Death takes the poor man’s cow and the rich man’s child.	French proverb
The weakest must hold the candle.	French proverb
The tree does not fall at the first stroke.	French proverb
In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil.	French proverb
At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore.	French proverb
As soon dies the calf as the cow.	French proverb
A man travels as far in a day as a snail in a hundred years.	French proverb
The niggard spends as much as he who is liberal, and in the end more.	French proverb
He sins as much who holds the bag as he who puts into it.	French proverb
You may as well give a good beating as a bad one.	French proverb
One may as well be well beaten as badly beaten.	French proverb
It is all one whether you are bit by a dog or a bitch.	French proverb
A man is valued according to his own estimate of himself.	French proverb
A short sword for a brave man.	French proverb
With time and straw medlars ripen.	French proverb
With the help of an If you might put Paris into a bottle.	French proverb
A gilt bridle for an old mule.	French proverb
A vieux comptes nouvelles disputes.	French proverb
To have friends both in heaven and hell.	French proverb
To beat the dog in presence of the lion.	French proverb
Much memory and little judgment.	French proverb
Beauty and folly are often companions.	French proverb
Fair, good, rich, and wise, is a woman four stories high.	French proverb
Fair things are soon snatched away.	French proverb
A fine girl and a tattered gown always find something to hook them.	French proverb
A handsome hostess is bad for the purse.	French proverb
Need makes the old woman trot.	French proverb
He has enough to do who holds the handle of the frying-pan.	French proverb
He is a thief indeed who robs a thief.	French proverb
Good comes to better, and better to bad.	French proverb
To eat and drink, and sleep together, is marriage, methinks.	French proverb
A good lawyer is a bad neighbour.	French proverb
A good driver turns in a small space.	French proverb
It is well to fly low on account of the branches.	French proverb
Fat pastures make fat venison.	French proverb
Good watching drives away ill-luck.	French proverb
The better day the better deed.	French proverb
Good morrow spectacles, farewell lasses.	French proverb
A good swimmer is not safe against drowning.	French proverb
A good beast heats with eating.	French proverb
A good swordsman is never quarrelsome.	French proverb
’Tis a good farthing that saves a penny.	French proverb
He does a good day’s work who rids himself of a fool.	French proverb
Good repute is better than a golden belt.	French proverb
Good swimmers are drowned at last.	French proverb
No flies get into a shut mouth.	French proverb
Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf.	French proverb
The sheep that bleats loses its mouthful.	French proverb
The sheep that is too tame is sucked by too many lambs.	French proverb
A crooked log makes a good fire.	French proverb
That brings water to the mill.	French proverb
He has a good pledge of the cat who has her skin.	French proverb
He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers.	French proverb
He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin.	French proverb
The devil leads him by the nose who the dice too often throws.	French proverb
He who rides on the giant’s shoulders sees further than he who carries him.	French proverb
He that holds the handle of the frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself.	French proverb
It is not the greatest beauties that inspire the most profound passion.	French proverb
It is not enough to have cabbage, one must have something to grease it.	French proverb
It is nothing at all, only a woman drowning.	French proverb
A hundred years of fretting will not pay a halfpenny of debt.	French proverb
A hundred years is not much, but never is a long while.	French proverb
But for all that the honest man has not got his purse.	French proverb
What the gauntlet wins the gorget consumes.	French proverb
What the child hears at the fireside is soon known at the parish church.	French proverb
What the sober man keeps in his heart is on the tongue of the drunkard.	French proverb
What a monk thinks he dares to do.	French proverb
What the colt learns in youth he continues in old age.	French proverb
All is not lost that is delayed.	French proverb
What is bad for one is good for another.	French proverb
What is enough was never little.	French proverb
What is learned in the cradle lasts till the grave.	French proverb
The worst jests are those that are true.	French proverb
It is folly to gape against an oven.	French proverb
He is a fool who makes his physician his heir.	French proverb
He is a fool who makes a mallet of his fist.	French proverb
Like King Petaud’s court, where every one is master.	French proverb
It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round.	French proverb
He is like Jean de Nivelle’s dog, that runs away when he is called.	French proverb
It is the tone that makes the music.	French proverb
He is the devil’s valet, he does more than he is ordered.	French proverb
’Tis everywhere the same as here.	French proverb
It is not enough to run; one must start in time.	French proverb
When the child is christened you will have godfathers enough.	French proverb
The worst wheel always creaks most.	French proverb
It is loving too much to die of love.	French proverb
’Tis a long day a day without bread.	French proverb
Every one has a fool in his sleeve.	French proverb
Not every dog that barks bites.	French proverb
Every one says: My right is good.	French proverb
Every one should sweep before his own door.	French proverb
Every one his own, is but fair.	French proverb
Not every one that dances is glad.	French proverb
Every one for himself and God for all.	French proverb
Every one preaches for his own saint.	French proverb
Every one takes his pleasure where he finds it.	French proverb
Every one takes his flogging in his own way.	French proverb
Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him.	French proverb
Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended.	French proverb
Every one draws the water to his own mill.	French proverb
To exchange a one-eyed horse for a blind one.	French proverb
Every to-morrow brings its bread.	French proverb
Every potter vaunts his own pot.	French proverb
The coalheaver is master at home.	French proverb
Well-regulated charity begins with one’s self.	French proverb
A mansion pulled down is half built up again.	French proverb
A scalded cat dreads cold water.	French proverb
To look for noon at fourteen o’clock.	French proverb
To look for a needle in a bundle of hay.	French proverb
A galled horse does not care to be curried.	French proverb
A hungry dog is not afraid of a cudgelling.	French proverb
Every dog is valiant in his own kennel.	French proverb
A thing lost is a thing known.	French proverb
Things promised are things due.	French proverb
A thing too much seen is little prized.	French proverb
Communities begin by building their kitchen.	French proverb
A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise.	French proverb
No lock avails against a hatchet.	French proverb
A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave.	French proverb
To sew the fox’s skin to the lion’s.	French proverb
A short mass and a long dinner.	French proverb
Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long.	French proverb
To cry famine on a heap of corn.	French proverb
All cats are alike grey at night.	French proverb
Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound.	French proverb
From short pleasure long repentance.	French proverb
From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey.	French proverb
Of two evils choose the least.	French proverb
Of two lookers on one is sure to become a player.	French proverb
The stronger the seam the worse the rent.	French proverb
The higher the rise the greater the fall.	French proverb
The corn falls out of a shaken sheaf.	French proverb
A full belly sets a man jigging.	French proverb
Ask my comrade, who is as great a liar as myself.	French proverb
Out of yes and no comes all dispute.	French proverb
Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up.	French proverb
Of little cloth but a short cloak.	French proverb
God save me from those I trust in.	French proverb
The devil often lurks behind the cross.	French proverb
There are good dogs of all sizes.	French proverb
A man who wants bread is ready for anything.	French proverb
Two men may meet, but never two mountains.	French proverb
Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends.	French proverb
God helps three sorts of people: fools, children, and drunkards.	French proverb
God gives the cold according to the cloth.	French proverb
God saves the moon from the wolves.	French proverb
God knows who is a good pilgrim.	French proverb
God save you from a man who has but one business.	French proverb
Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are.	French proverb
Always talk big and you will never be forgotten.	French proverb
Always say no, and you will never be married.	French proverb
In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains.	French proverb
To offer one candle to God and another to the devil.	French proverb
One hour’s sleep before midnight is better than three after it.	French proverb
With an old husband’s hide one buys a young one.	French proverb
’Twixt the word and the deed there’s a long step.	French proverb
There’s no guarding against the privy thief.	French proverb
When a cow is lost it is something to recover its tail, were it only to make a handle for one’s door.	French proverb
White meal is not got out of a coal-sack.	French proverb
To begin skinning the eel at the tail.	French proverb
Bring up a raven and he will peck out your eyes.	French proverb
Children and fools are prophets.	French proverb
Foxes come at last to the furrier’s.	French proverb
By working in the smithy one becomes a smith.	French proverb
At the king’s court every one for himself.	French proverb
In the fiddler’s house every one is a dancer.	French proverb
Very good corn grows in little fields.	French proverb
Precious ointments are put in small boxes.	French proverb
He sleeps securely who has nothing to lose.	French proverb
Between two stools the breech comes to the ground.	French proverb
Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter.	French proverb
Wine will not keep in a foul vessel.	French proverb
He is rich enough who owes nothing.	French proverb
To put a good face on a bad game.	French proverb
To do like the monkey, get the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat’s paw.	French proverb
To make a virtue of necessity.	French proverb
To cut broad thongs from another man’s leather.	French proverb
To make two hits with one stone.	French proverb
To make one hole by way of stopping another.	French proverb
The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead.	French proverb
Do what you ought, come what may.	French proverb
Trim my beard and I will trim your topknot.	French proverb
Women, money, and wine have their balm and their harm.	French proverb
A woman and a melon are hard to choose.	French proverb
A woman who looks much in the glass spins but little.	French proverb
A woman who accepts, sells herself; a woman who gives, surrenders.	French proverb
A woman laughs when she can, and weeps when she pleases.	French proverb
A foolish woman is known by her finery.	French proverb
Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper.	French proverb
Fie upon a cloak in fair weather.	French proverb
A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief.	French proverb
Fine and fine make but a slender doublet.	French proverb
The word of honour of a gentleman—another pledge would be better.	French proverb
’Tis a silly sheep that makes the wolf her confessor.	French proverb
The fool who is silent passes for wise.	French proverb
Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.	French proverb
A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken.	French proverb
To burn out a candle in search of a pin.	French proverb
A gentleman of Beauce who stays in bed till his breeches are mended.	French proverb
Grease a churl’s boots and he’ll say you are burning them.	French proverb
He has great need of a fool who makes himself one.	French proverb
A great estate is not gotten in a few hours.	French proverb
A fat kitchen makes a lean will.	French proverb
A great talker is a great liar.	French proverb
Fine birds are commonly plucked.	French proverb
Dress slowly when you are in a hurry.	French proverb
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news.	French proverb
Happy the child whose father goes to the devil.	French proverb
A man assailed is half overcome.	French proverb
The early riser is healthy, cheerful, and industrious.	French proverb
No man understands knavery better than the abbot who has been a monk.	French proverb
Honest poverty is thinly sown.	French proverb
He beat the bushes and another caught the birds.	French proverb
It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning.	French proverb
He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing.	French proverb
That often happens in a day which does not happen in a hundred years.	French proverb
He has eaten his corn in the blade.	French proverb
He has put all his eggs into one basket.	French proverb
He expects that larks will fall ready roasted into his mouth.	French proverb
He looks for his ass and sits on its back.	French proverb
It is the old cow’s notion that she never was a calf.	French proverb
It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle.	French proverb
He is a great fool who forgets himself.	French proverb
It is good to have friends in all parts.	French proverb
He is like the gardener’s dog, who don’t eat cabbages and will let no one else eat them.	French proverb
He is called clever who cheats and plunders his friend.	French proverb
He is like a cat, he always falls on his feet.	French proverb
It is just that the priest should live by the altar.	French proverb
He was born on a Sunday, he likes work ready done.	French proverb
It is easier to get away from the bank than the bottom.	French proverb
He is past preaching to who does not care to do well.	French proverb
It is too late to lock the stable-door when the steeds are stolen.	French proverb
Very hard times in the wood when the wolves eat each other.	French proverb
It is good to beat a proud man when he is alone.	French proverb
It is always well to keep hold of your horse’s bridle.	French proverb
To get the chicks one must coax the hen.	French proverb
Pills must be swallowed without chewing.	French proverb
It is well to leave off playing when the game is at its best.	French proverb
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.	French proverb
One must be either anvil or hammer.	French proverb
Scratch people where they itch.	French proverb
One must howl with the wolves.	French proverb
It is better to leave the child’s nose dirty than wring it off.	French proverb
Foul linen should be washed at home.	French proverb
Praise the sea, and keep on land.	French proverb
One must pass through the door or the window.	French proverb
One must lose a minnow to catch a salmon.	French proverb
Put the belfry in the middle of the village.	French proverb
The benefice must be taken with its liabilities.	French proverb
A door must either be open or shut.	French proverb
One must step back to make the better leap.	French proverb
Give out that you have many friends, and believe that you have but few.	French proverb
Set your sail according to the wind.	French proverb
Shear the sheep but don’t flay them.	French proverb
One must needs like what one cannot hinder.	French proverb
He puts his sickle into another man’s harvest.	French proverb
He forgot nothing except to say farewell.	French proverb
Borrowers must not be choosers.	French proverb
Never challenge a fool to do wrong.	French proverb
It won’t do to trifle with fire.	French proverb
It will not do to keep holidays before they come.	French proverb
Never say, Fountain, I will not drink of thy water.	French proverb
Do not make two devils of one.	French proverb
All cats are not to be set down for witches.	French proverb
You must not throw stones into your neighbour’s garden.	French proverb
Do not abstain from sowing for fear of the pigeons.	French proverb
Asses must not be tied up with horses.	French proverb
Never put your finger between the tree and the bark.	French proverb
Don’t snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village.	French proverb
Don’t rely on the label of the bag.	French proverb
Never sell the bearskin till you have killed the bear.	French proverb
Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged.	French proverb
To grow rich one has only to turn his back on God.	French proverb
One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock.	French proverb
One may steal nothing save a lawyer’s purse.	French proverb
He will not lose his oats for want of braying.	French proverb
He does not guard himself well who is not always on his guard.	French proverb
There is no hunting but with old hounds.	French proverb
’Tis a good horse that has no fault.	French proverb
There is no pride like that of a beggar grown rich.	French proverb
He is not escaped who drags his chain.	French proverb
He is not so much of a devil as he is black.	French proverb
There is no worse water than that which sleeps.	French proverb
None so deaf as he that won’t hear.	French proverb
Never seemed a prison fair or mistress foul.	French proverb
There’s nothing like having the key of the fields.	French proverb
There’s nothing like being bespattered for making a man defy the gutter.	French proverb
There is nothing so well done but may be mended.	French proverb
The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing.	French proverb
The best driver will sometimes upset.	French proverb
There is no spite like that of a proud beggar.	French proverb
There is no chapel so small but has its saint.	French proverb
There never was a banquet so sumptuous but some one dined ill at it.	French proverb
Be a horse ever so well shod, he may slip.	French proverb
It is a good horse that never stumbles.	French proverb
There’s neither rhyme nor reason.	French proverb
None so busy as those who do nothing.	French proverb
There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly.	French proverb
There are no foolish trades, there are only foolish people.	French proverb
There are no children now-a-days.	French proverb
There is no love without jealousy.	French proverb
No man is a hero in the eyes of his valet.	French proverb
There is no such thing as an insignificant enemy.	French proverb
It is only the first bottle that is dear.	French proverb
The first step is all the difficulty.	French proverb
It is only good bargains that ruin.	French proverb
It is only the bashful that lose.	French proverb
All is luck or ill luck in this world.	French proverb
The best company must part, as King Dagobert said to his hounds.	French proverb
No day so long but has its evening.	French proverb
There is no pot so bad but finds its cover.	French proverb
There is no bush so small but casts its shadow.	French proverb
Lion-skins were never had cheap.	French proverb
He wears the mourning of his washerwoman.	French proverb
He is like a singed cat, better than he looks.	French proverb
He ruins himself in promises, and clears himself by giving nothing.	French proverb
He falls on his back and breaks his nose.	French proverb
It is better to have to do with God than with his saints.	French proverb
Better be mad with all the world than wise alone.	French proverb
It is better to be the hammer than the anvil.	French proverb
Better to be envied than pitied.	French proverb
It is better to bend than break.	French proverb
Better to stumble once than be always tottering.	French proverb
There are more foolish buyers than foolish sellers.	French proverb
There is a remedy for everything but death.	French proverb
Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee.	French proverb
A good dog never barks at fault.	French proverb
A muffled cat never caught a mouse.	French proverb
A kick from a mare never hurt a horse.	French proverb
A big nose never spoiled a handsome face.	French proverb
The bagpipe never utters a word till its belly is full.	French proverb
John has been to school to learn to be a fool.	French proverb
I never saw a silent rich man.	French proverb
To throw the helve after the hatchet.	French proverb
Manual jokes are clown’s jokes.	French proverb
A merry life forgets father and mother.	French proverb
He that is thrown would still wrestle.	French proverb
A fine cage won’t feed the bird.	French proverb
A landmark is very well placed between the fields of two brothers.	French proverb
The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain.	French proverb
The cask always smells of the herring.	French proverb
The candle that goes before is better than that which comes after.	French proverb
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.	French proverb
Hunger looks in at the industrious man’s door but dares not enter.	French proverb
The devil’s meal turns half to bran.	French proverb
The fault is great in proportion to him who commits it.	French proverb
The saint’s-day over, farewell the saint.	French proverb
Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her to-day, expect not to regain her to-morrow.	French proverb
The most friendly fortune trips up your heels.	French proverb
Fortune can take from us only what she has given us.	French proverb
The lawyer’s pouch is a mouth of hell.	French proverb
Gluttony has killed more than the sword.	French proverb
War makes robbers, peace hangs them.	French proverb
The eagle does not hunt flies.	French proverb
Leave the minster where it is.	French proverb
Youth may stray afar yet return at last.	French proverb
The blade wears out the sheath.	French proverb
A woman’s tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust.	French proverb
The tongue goes to where the tooth aches.	French proverb
The list is worse than the cloth.	French proverb
The law says what the king pleases.	French proverb
Bad watch often feeds the wolf.	French proverb
One half the world knows not how the other half lives.	French proverb
One half the world laughs at the other.	French proverb
Love makes time pass away, and time makes love pass away.	French proverb
Love does wonders, but money makes marriage.	French proverb
The mountaineer’s ass carries wine and drinks water.	French proverb
The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled.	French proverb
A honeyed tongue with a heart of gall.	French proverb
The hen’s eyes are with her chickens.	French proverb
Patience is the virtue of asses.	French proverb
The skin is nearer than the shirt.	French proverb
The little alms are the good alms.	French proverb
The handsomest woman can only give what she has.	French proverb
The greatest cunning is to have none at all.	French proverb
The old monkey gets the apple.	French proverb
The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock.	French proverb
The tail is the hardest to scourge.	French proverb
The arguments of the strongest have always the most weight.	French proverb
Money is a good servant but a bad master.	French proverb
Money is lost only for want of money.	French proverb
The only victory over love is flight.	French proverb
Vanity has no greater foe than vanity.	French proverb
The miser and the pig are of no use till dead.	French proverb
Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody.	French proverb
Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog.	French proverb
Life is half spent before one knows what life is.	French proverb
A handsome shoe often pinches the foot.	French proverb
The beadle of the parish is always of the vicar’s opinion.	French proverb
Take an ox by his horn, a man by his word.	French proverb
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother’s.	French proverb
The bud becomes a rose and the rose a hip.	French proverb
The noise is so great one cannot hear God thunder.	French proverb
The kettle smuts the frying-pan.	French proverb
The heart leads whither it goes.	French proverb
The listener makes the backbiter.	French proverb
The last come is the best liked.	French proverb
The devil was handsome when he was young.	French proverb
The devil is not always at a poor man’s door.	French proverb
The devil may die without my inheriting his horns.	French proverb
The false friend is like the shadow of a sun-dial.	French proverb
The most covered fire is always the most glowing.	French proverb
The fool hunts for misfortune.	French proverb
The fool cuts himself with his own knife.	French proverb
The game is not worth the candle.	French proverb
The hare always returns to her form.	French proverb
The wolf will die in his skin.	French proverb
The ill year comes in swimming.	French proverb
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.	French proverb
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.	French proverb
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.	French proverb
The monk responds as the abbot chants.	French proverb
The mortar always smells of the garlic.	French proverb
The mill does not grind with water that is past.	French proverb
The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master.	French proverb
Incense intoxicates and every one wishes for it.	French proverb
The meaning is best known to the speaker.	French proverb
A thorn comes into the world point foremost.	French proverb
The richest man carries nothing away with him but a shroud.	French proverb
He is the wisest man who does not think himself so.	French proverb
The first blow is as good as two.	French proverb
The first step binds one to the second.	French proverb
The rich man has more relations than he knows.	French proverb
The absent are always in the wrong.	French proverb
A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain.	French proverb
The Germans carry their wit in their fingers.	French proverb
Rich garments weep on unworthy shoulders.	French proverb
Bells call to church but do not enter.	French proverb
Ravens do not peck out ravens’ eyes.	French proverb
Shoemakers are always the worst shod.	French proverb
The last comers are often the masters.	French proverb
Children are what they are made.	French proverb
The envious will die, but envy never.	French proverb
Fools invent fashions and wise men follow them.	French proverb
It is not the big oxen that do the best day’s work.	French proverb
Great scholars are not the shrewdest men.	French proverb
Great talkers are not great doers.	French proverb
Great thieves always have their sleeves full of gags.	French proverb
Great thieves hang the little ones.	French proverb
The big fish eat the little ones.	French proverb
A beggar is never out of his road.	French proverb
The Italians cry, the Germans bawl, and the French sing.	French proverb
The days follow each other and are not alike.	French proverb
When thieves fall out the thefts are discovered.	French proverb
Lawyers’ houses are built of fools’ heads.	French proverb
The worst clothed go to windward.	French proverb
Marriages are written in heaven.	French proverb
The goslings would lead the geese out to grass.	French proverb
Are there not spots on the sun?.	French proverb
The sun shines for all the world.	French proverb
Little brooks make great rivers.	French proverb
The shortest follies are the best.	French proverb
The most cunning are the first caught.	French proverb
Princes will not be served on conditions.	French proverb
Princes use men as the husbandman uses bees.	French proverb
Princes keep good reckoning, they never lose anything.	French proverb
The wit one wants spoils what one has.	French proverb
Empty casks make the most noise.	French proverb
Their dogs don’t hunt in couples.	French proverb
To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine.	French proverb
To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten.	French proverb
The churl knows not the worth of spurs.	French proverb
The wine given to your workmen is that for which you get the best paid.	French proverb
What is true is not always probable.	French proverb
The gown does not make the monk.	French proverb
Happy is the man who has a handsome wife close to an abbey.	French proverb
Man is fire, woman is tow, and the devil comes and blows.	French proverb
The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home.	French proverb
Man proposes and God disposes.	French proverb
A guest and a fish after three days are poison.	French proverb
Men’s ignorance makes the pot boil for priests.	French proverb
The will is taken for the deed.	French proverb
The eye of the master fattens the steed.	French proverb
The bird ought not to soil its own nest.	French proverb
Link by link the coat of mail is made.	French proverb
Many a one is good because he can do no mischief.	French proverb
A house ready made and a wife to make.	French proverb
Another’s misfortune is only a dream.	French proverb
He sups ill who eats up all at dinner.	French proverb
Misfortune upon misfortune is not wholesome.	French proverb
A dealer in onions is a good judge of scallions.	French proverb
The merchant that loses cannot laugh.	French proverb
A hawk’s marriage: the hen is the better bird.	French proverb
Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can.	French proverb
A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple.	French proverb
A bad heart and a good stomach.	French proverb
A bad workman never finds a good tool.	French proverb
A wicked dog must be tied short.	French proverb
A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter.	French proverb
Arrange your cloak as the wind blows.	French proverb
To put the plough before the oxen.	French proverb
Enough is better than too much.	French proverb
Better to have a friend on the road than gold or silver in your purse.	French proverb
Better a good dinner than a fine coat.	French proverb
Better be a coward than foolhardy.	French proverb
Contrivance is better than force.	French proverb
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion.	French proverb
Better a slip of the foot than of the tongue.	French proverb
Better walk before a hen than behind an ox.	French proverb
Better lose the wool than the sheep.	French proverb
A handful of good life is better than seven bushels of learning.	French proverb
Thrift is better than an annuity.	French proverb
Better a ruined than a lost land.	French proverb
An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom.	French proverb
One foot is better than two stilts.	French proverb
One “take this” is worth more than two “you shall have.”.	French proverb
A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the wing.	French proverb
The monk that begs for God’s sake begs for two.	French proverb
Rage avails less than courage.	French proverb
Show me a liar and I’ll show you a thief.	French proverb
There is no flavour in a swallowed morsel.	French proverb
The beast dead, the venom is dead.	French proverb
Word by word the big books are made.	French proverb
A white wall is the fool’s paper.	French proverb
He has not done who is beginning.	French proverb
Spit not in the well, you may have to drink its water.	French proverb
Trust not to God but upon good security.	French proverb
Don’t make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly.	French proverb
Don’t put your finger into too tight a ring.	French proverb
Do not lend your money to a great man.	French proverb
Don’t find fault with what you don’t understand.	French proverb
All are not hunters who blow the horn.	French proverb
Touch not another man’s money, for the most honest never added to it.	French proverb
We shall see, as the blind man said.	French proverb
No one will get a bargain he does not ask for.	French proverb
No man is a prophet in his own country.	French proverb
No one is so liberal as he who has nothing to give.	French proverb
No wind can do him good who steers for no port.	French proverb
Anoint a villain and he will prick you, prick a villain and he will anoint you.	French proverb
It is in vain to lead the ox to the water if he is not thirsty.	French proverb
Everything may be bought except day and night.	French proverb
People take more pains to be damned than to be saved.	French proverb
One often has need of a lesser than oneself.	French proverb
Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last.	French proverb
One has always strength enough to bear the misfortunes of one’s friends.	French proverb
People count up the faults of those who keep them waiting.	French proverb
An old ape never made a pretty grimace.	French proverb
People make the bells say what they please.	French proverb
The wolf is not so big as people make him.	French proverb
It would be a very big book that contained all the maybes uttered in a day.	French proverb
Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated.	French proverb
A sack is best tied before it is full.	French proverb
One never gets more than one’s money’s worth of anything.	French proverb
No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger.	French proverb
The wine is not known by the hoops.	French proverb
There’s no need to grease the fat pig’s rump.	French proverb
Good land should not be quitted for a bad landlord.	French proverb
Fat broth cannot be made of nothing.	French proverb
It is only at the tree loaded with fruit that people throw stones.	French proverb
One cannot please everybody and one’s father.	French proverb
One can’t hinder the wind from blowing.	French proverb
One cannot ring the bells and walk in the procession.	French proverb
Hares are not caught by the sound of the drum.	French proverb
One knows not for whom he gathers.	French proverb
You cannot make an ass drink if he is not thirsty.	French proverb
You cannot make a hawk of a buzzard.	French proverb
You cannot get oil out of a wall.	French proverb
One is never soiled but by filth.	French proverb
One never goes so far as when one doesn’t know whither one is going.	French proverb
It is good fishing in troubled waters.	French proverb
Flies are easier caught with honey than with vinegar.	French proverb
A man takes his own wherever he finds it.	French proverb
One always returns to one’s first love.	French proverb
One always knocks oneself in the sore place.	French proverb
The horse that draws most is most whipped.	French proverb
One may go a long way after one is tired.	French proverb
There are more old drunkards than old doctors.	French proverb
That is gold which is worth gold.	French proverb
Get out of that place and let me take it.	French proverb
Where the thread is weakest it breaks.	French proverb
Where there is no sore there needs no plaister.	French proverb
Where there is nothing the king loses his rights.	French proverb
Where the goat is tied she must browse.	French proverb
Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast.	French proverb
Where the hedge is lowest men jump over.	French proverb
Where the hostess is handsome the wine is good.	French proverb
Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace.	French proverb
Stolen bread stirs the appetite.	French proverb
A word once out flies everywhere.	French proverb
A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other.	French proverb
In too much disputing truth is lost.	French proverb
To squeeze an eel too hard is the way to lose it.	French proverb
Give me the rhubarb and you may take the senna.	French proverb
Whilst the dogs are growling at each other the wolf devours the sheep.	French proverb
A little dinner, long expected and cold, is by no means given, but dearly sold.	French proverb
A little sheep always seems young.	French proverb
A little spark shines in the dark.	French proverb
A little rain stills a great wind.	French proverb
A little man fells a great oak.	French proverb
A little leaven leavens a great mass.	French proverb
To pluck the goose without making it cry out.	French proverb
Gentleness does more than violence.	French proverb
The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump.	French proverb
The more fools the more laughter.	French proverb
The more you stir it the more it stinks.	French proverb
The more a man exposes his nakedness the colder he is.	French proverb
The more haste the worse speed.	French proverb
When the devil finds the door shut he goes away.	French proverb
To carry a lantern in mid-day.	French proverb
Possession is as good as a title.	French proverb
To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him.	French proverb
To make a happy couple, the husband must be deaf and the wife blind.	French proverb
For sake of the knight the lady kisses the squire.	French proverb
He asks advice in vain who will not follow it.	French proverb
The abbey does not fail for want of one monk.	French proverb
For one pleasure a thousand pains.	French proverb
To take opportunity by the forelock.	French proverb
Take a woman’s first advice and not her second.	French proverb
The nearer the minster the later to mass.	French proverb
Promising and performing are two things.	French proverb
To promise more butter than bread.	French proverb
Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk.	French proverb
When God sends flour the devil carries off the sack.	French proverb
When there is no wind every man is a pilot.	French proverb
When the cage is ready the bird is flown.	French proverb
After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty.	French proverb
When the door is low one must stoop.	French proverb
When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches.	French proverb
When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow.	French proverb
When the dog is drowning every one brings him water.	French proverb
When the devil grows old he turns hermit.	French proverb
When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you.	French proverb
When the Frenchman sleeps the devil rocks him.	French proverb
When goods increase the body decreases.	French proverb
When the words are said, the holy water is made.	French proverb
He who has daughters is always a shepherd.	French proverb
When you are well off keep as you are.	French proverb
When one is dead, it is for a long while.	French proverb
When one has not what one likes, one must like what one has.	French proverb
Talk of the wolf and you see his tail.	French proverb
When all other sins are old avarice is still young.	French proverb
When glory comes memory departs.	French proverb
Let not your shirt know your way of thinking.	French proverb
A good head does not want for hats.	French proverb
He who has a companion has a master.	French proverb
Let him who is cold blow the fire.	French proverb
He that is ashamed to eat is ashamed to live.	French proverb
Who loves well chastises well.	French proverb
Who loves well is slow to forget.	French proverb
He who has his purse full preaches to the poor man.	French proverb
He that hath a head of wax must not approach the fire.	French proverb
He who waits for a dead man’s shoes is in danger of going barefoot.	French proverb
He pays for the glasses who breaks them.	French proverb
He never was a friend who has ceased to be one.	French proverb
Who eats capon, capon comes to him.	French proverb
He who begins and does not finish loses his labour.	French proverb
He that hunts two hares will catch neither.	French proverb
Who spits against heaven, it falls on his head.	French proverb
He who fears to suffer, suffers from fear.	French proverb
He who sees leather cut asks for a thong.	French proverb
He who can give has many a good neighbour.	French proverb
He who listens at doors hears more than he desires.	French proverb
He who dispraises a thing, wants to buy it.	French proverb
He who spares vice wrongs virtue.	French proverb
He who kennels with wolves must howl.	French proverb
Whose is well let him keep so.	French proverb
He who is at sea does not direct the winds.	French proverb
He that hath a wife is sure of strife.	French proverb
He who trusts a woman and leads an ass will never be free from plague.	French proverb
He who judges between two friends loses one of them.	French proverb
He who eats of the king’s goose will void a feather forty years after.	French proverb
He who eats the king’s cow lean, pays for it fat.	French proverb
He who rides the mule shoes her.	French proverb
Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed.	French proverb
A Sunday’s child never dies of the plague.	French proverb
He who does not bait his hook fishes in vain.	French proverb
He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth.	French proverb
A man who has but one eye must take good care of it.	French proverb
He who has nothing fears nothing.	French proverb
He who has not health has nothing.	French proverb
He that corrects not youth controls not age.	French proverb
He that will not when he may, when he will shall have nay.	French proverb
Nothing venture, nothing have.	French proverb
Who hears but one bell hears but one sound.	French proverb
He who holds his tongue does not commit himself.	French proverb
Who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book.	French proverb
Don’t show your teeth if you can’t bite.	French proverb
He who looks not before finds himself behind.	French proverb
He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all.	French proverb
He who cannot speak well of his trade does not understand it.	French proverb
Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much loses horse and mule.	French proverb
He who does not tire, tires adversity.	French proverb
He who goes abroad by day has no need of a lantern.	French proverb
Company in distress makes trouble less.	French proverb
Spare to speak and spare to speed.	French proverb
He that ventures not fails not.	French proverb
Who speaks, sows; who listens, reaps.	French proverb
He who goes everywhere gains everywhere.	French proverb
He who passes a winter’s day passes one of his mortal enemies.	French proverb
He who pays is fairly entitled to speak his mind.	French proverb
He who pays well is well served.	French proverb
Who pays soon borrows when he will.	French proverb
He that spends more than he is worth spins a rope for his own neck.	French proverb
He who carries one burden will soon carry a hundred.	French proverb
He who takes a wife takes a master.	French proverb
Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power.	French proverb
Who lends to a friend loses doubly.	French proverb
Who proves too much proves nothing.	French proverb
He who quits his place loses it.	French proverb
He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill.	French proverb
He who carries nothing loses nothing.	French proverb
He who gets out of debt enriches himself.	French proverb
He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey’s end.	French proverb
Could a man foresee events he would never be poor.	French proverb
He who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas.	French proverb
He who turns aside avoids danger.	French proverb
He who loses his temper is in the wrong.	French proverb
Make yourself a sheep and the wolf will eat you.	French proverb
Marry in haste and repent at leisure.	French proverb
He who marries for love has good nights and bad days.	French proverb
He who sows thistles reaps thorns.	French proverb
Who sows thorns should not go barefoot.	French proverb
God helps him who helps himself.	French proverb
Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught be left undone.	French proverb
Let him that itches scratch himself.	French proverb
Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it.	French proverb
He who never budges from Paris will never be pope.	French proverb
He who excuses himself accuses himself.	French proverb
He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases.	French proverb
He who holds the thread holds the ball.	French proverb
He gives twice who gives in a trice.	French proverb
He who torments others does not sleep well.	French proverb
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.	French proverb
He who grasps too much holds not firmly.	French proverb
He that is too much in haste, may stumble on a good road.	French proverb
Who punishes one threatens a hundred.	French proverb
He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn.	French proverb
Who goes and returns makes a good journey.	French proverb
He who bestirs himself sucks up, he who lies still dries up.	French proverb
If a man would learn to pray let him go often to sea.	French proverb
He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months’ end.	French proverb
He who wishes to make a golden door drives a nail into it every day.	French proverb
A man who wants to drown his dog says he is mad.	French proverb
He had need rise early who would please everybody.	French proverb
To scare a bird is not the way to catch it.	French proverb
He that would keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it.	French proverb
He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope.	French proverb
He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast.	French proverb
Fair is he that comes, but fairer he that brings.	French proverb
Who lives on the score has shame evermore.	French proverb
He who lives long knows what pain is.	French proverb
See a pin and let it lie, you’ll want a pin before you die.	French proverb
Though the fool waits, the day does not.	French proverb
Reason not with the great, ’tis a perilous gate.	French proverb
The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered.	French proverb
To give change out for his coin.	French proverb
He has nothing who has not enough.	French proverb
Nothing is so burthensome as a secret.	French proverb
Nothing is more like an honest man than a rogue.	French proverb
Nothing is so liberally given as advice.	French proverb
Nothing so good as forbidden fruit.	French proverb
A colt is good for nothing if it does not break its halter.	French proverb
Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness.	French proverb
He’ll laugh well that laughs longest.	French proverb
The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine.	French proverb
Without bread and wine even love will pine.	French proverb
To jump out of the frying pan into the fire.	French proverb
The secret of two is God’s secret, the secret of three is everybody’s secret.	French proverb
To turn fishmonger on Easter-eve.	French proverb
To jump into the water for fear of the rain.	French proverb
According to the arm be the bleeding.	French proverb
Serve as a serf or fly like a deer.	French proverb
Were it not for “if” and “but,” we should all be rich for ever.	French proverb
Were it a wolf it would spring at your throat.	French proverb
Unless hell is full no lawyer will ever be saved.	French proverb
If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks.	French proverb
Were the devil to come from hell to fight, there would forthwith be a Frenchman to accept the challenge.	French proverb
If the weather is fine, put on your cloak; if it rains, do as you please.	French proverb
If it only depends on swearing, the cow is ours.	French proverb
If we pay for the music we will join in the dance.	French proverb
If your head is made of butter, don’t be a baker.	French proverb
If you cannot say it, point to it with your finger.	French proverb
Give him a foot and he’ll take four.	French proverb
Be truly what thou wouldst be thought to be.	French proverb
A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end.	French proverb
His horse’s head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable.	French proverb
The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass.	French proverb
Suspicion is the poison of friendship.	French proverb
The mouse that has but one hole is soon caught.	French proverb
Follow the river and you will reach the sea.	French proverb
He goes safely who has nothing.	French proverb
Upon an egg the hen lays an egg.	French proverb
One must talk soothingly to the dog until one has passed him.	French proverb
The pitcher goes often to the well and gets broken at last.	French proverb
As the man is worth his land is worth.	French proverb
Some have fine eyes and can’t see a jot.	French proverb
Some have bread who have no teeth left.	French proverb
Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves.	French proverb
Some think they have done when they are only beginning.	French proverb
Some thinking to avenge their shame increase it.	French proverb
Many a one suffers for what he can’t help.	French proverb
A man may threaten yet be afraid.	French proverb
The threatener sometimes gets a beating.	French proverb
He that laughs on Friday may cry on Sunday.	French proverb
Weather, wind, women, and fortune change like the moon.	French proverb
Mother’s love is ever in its spring.	French proverb
Pulling the devil by the tail does not lead far young or old.	French proverb
To take the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat’s paw.	French proverb
Always in love, never married.	French proverb
One does not always hit what one aims at.	French proverb
A sow is always dreaming of bran.	French proverb
Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow.	French proverb
Every thing does not fall that totters.	French proverb
All is not gold that glitters.	French proverb
What is worth receiving is worth returning.	French proverb
All the keys don’t hang at one girdle.	French proverb
All heads are not sense-boxes.	French proverb
All truths are not good to be uttered.	French proverb
All state, and nothing on the plate.	French proverb
Everybody is wise after the thing has happened.	French proverb
To the jaundiced all things seem yellow.	French proverb
Everything goes to him who does not want it.	French proverb
Everything in time comes to him, who knows how to wait.	French proverb
Everything goes by favour and cousinship.	French proverb
Trickery comes back to its master.	French proverb
It is a sorry house in which the cock is silent and the hen crows.	French proverb
Three removals are as bad as a fire.	French proverb
He pays dear for honey who licks it off thorns.	French proverb
Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms.	French proverb
It is too late for the bird to scream when it is caught.	French proverb
Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce.	French proverb
To kill the hen by way of getting the egg.	French proverb
A friend to my table and wine, is no good neighbour.	French proverb
An ass does not stumble twice over the same stone.	French proverb
An apothecary ought not to be long a cuckold.	French proverb
One blind man leads another into the ditch.	French proverb
Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury.	French proverb
A lame man won’t walk with one who is lamer.	French proverb
A good advice is as good as an eye in the hand.	French proverb
A good gaper makes two gapers.	French proverb
A good fox does not eat his neighbour’s fowls.	French proverb
A good repast ought to begin with hunger.	French proverb
A jackfish does more than a letter of recommendation.	French proverb
A brain is worth little without a tongue.	French proverb
The tongue wounds more than a lance.	French proverb
A courtier should be without feeling and without honour.	French proverb
One candle for St. Michael, and another for his devil.	French proverb
A clear conscience is a good pillow.	French proverb
A fault denied is twice committed.	French proverb
A woman conceals only what she does not know.	French proverb
One flower does not make a garland.	French proverb
One swallow does not make a spring.	French proverb
An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice.	French proverb
A blind hen can sometimes find her corn.	French proverb
A wise man may learn of a fool.	French proverb
A man warned is as good as two.	French proverb
A man well mounted is always proud.	French proverb
A man of straw is worth a woman of gold.	French proverb
A dead man has neither relations nor friends.	French proverb
A drowning man clings to a blade of grass.	French proverb
A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl.	French proverb
One day is as good as two for him who does everything in its place.	French proverb
A silver hammer breaks an iron door.	French proverb
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.	French proverb
A sparrow in the hand is better than a crane on the wing.	French proverb
A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself.	French proverb
A little man sometimes casts a long shadow.	French proverb
A little absence does much good.	French proverb
A little help does a great deal.	French proverb
A little gall spoils a great deal of honey.	French proverb
A lord of straw devours a vassal of steel.	French proverb
One fool always finds a greater fool to admire him.	French proverb
One take-this is better than two thou-shalt-haves.	French proverb
An old oven is easier to heat than a new one.	French proverb
A cow from afar gives plenty of milk.	French proverb
A cow does not know what her tail is worth until she has lost it.	French proverb
At a bridge, a plank, a river, the servant foremost, the master behind.	French proverb
Do you want better bread than wheaten?.	French proverb
A friend’s meat is soon ready.	French proverb
Empty rooms make giddy housewives.	French proverb
A pig’s life, short and sweet.	French proverb
Old love and old brands kindle at all seasons.	French proverb
Old friends and new reckonings.	French proverb
An old ox makes a straight furrow.	French proverb
An old dog does not bark for nothing.	French proverb
A clown enriched knows neither relation nor friend.	French proverb
The town that parleys is half surrendered.	French proverb
Wine poured out is not wine swallowed.	French proverb
To rob a robber is not robbing.	French proverb
True nobility is invulnerable.	French proverb
Let us have florins and we shall find cousins.	Italian proverb
Rather have a little one for your friend, than a great one for your enemy.	Italian proverb
At a good bargain pause and ponder.	Italian proverb
A good cavalier never lacks a lance.	Italian proverb
A good horse never lacks a saddle.	Italian proverb
No need to say “trot” to a good horse.	Italian proverb
He who climbs too high is near a fall.	Italian proverb
A can che fugge, dagli, dagli.	Italian proverb
The dog that licks ashes is not to be trusted with flour.	Italian proverb
A mischievous dog must be tied short.	Italian proverb
Plenty of words when the cause is lost.	Italian proverb
Never heed the colour of a gift horse.	Italian proverb
Be the horse good or bad always wear your spurs.	Italian proverb
Flies flock to the lean horse.	Italian proverb
It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house.	Italian proverb
That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years.	Italian proverb
Give the wise man a hint and leave him to act.	Italian proverb
The shirt is nearer than the doublet.	Italian proverb
Associate with the good and you will be one of them.	Italian proverb
For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough.	Italian proverb
To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.	Italian proverb
The wrong-doer never lacks excuses.	Italian proverb
The fugitive finds everything impede him.	Italian proverb
He who has a head won’t want for a hat.	Italian proverb
He who succeeds is reputed wise.	Italian proverb
There is no helping him who will not be advised.	Italian proverb
Half a brain is enough for him who says little.	Italian proverb
He who likes drinking is always talking of wine.	Italian proverb
To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher.	Italian proverb
To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks.	Italian proverb
He who laughs overmuch may have an aching heart.	Italian proverb
To him who watches, everything reveals itself.	Italian proverb
Nothing is difficult to a willing mind.	Italian proverb
To him who is determined it remains only to act.	Italian proverb
Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon.	Italian proverb
Running water carries no poison.	Italian proverb
Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house.	Italian proverb
Water afar does not quench a fire at hand.	Italian proverb
Water past will not turn the mill.	Italian proverb
Muddy water won’t do for a mirror.	Italian proverb
Dirty water does not wash clean.	Italian proverb
Get a good name and go to sleep.	Italian proverb
Go softly at bad bits of road.	Italian proverb
To the fallen tree, hatchets! hatchets!.	Italian proverb
When a tree is falling, every one cries, down with it.	Italian proverb
At an open chest the righteous sins.	Italian proverb
Old thanks are not for new gifts.	Italian proverb
The light is painful to sore eyes.	Italian proverb
Every one thinks his own cross the heaviest.	Italian proverb
It is not easy to show the way to a blind man.	Italian proverb
The tree is not felled at one blow.	Italian proverb
For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave.	Italian proverb
Don’t go a-fishing to a famous stream.	Italian proverb
A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat.	Italian proverb
To a young heart everything is sport.	Italian proverb
An old horse for a young soldier.	Italian proverb
In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal.	Italian proverb
At a great river be the last to pass.	Italian proverb
A fat kitchen is next door to poverty.	Italian proverb
For extreme ills extreme remedies.	Italian proverb
A tree often transplanted is never loaded with fruit.	Italian proverb
The liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.	Italian proverb
Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer.	Italian proverb
At the end of the game we see who wins.	Italian proverb
The thief is frightened even by a mouse.	Italian proverb
A mill and a wife are always in want of something.	Italian proverb
Various are the roads to fame.	Italian proverb
Peel a fig for your friend, a peach for your enemy.	Italian proverb
Flies don’t light on a boiling pot.	Italian proverb
The devil turns away from a closed door.	Italian proverb
Handsome women generally fall to the lot of ugly men.	Italian proverb
Sometimes the lees are better than the wine.	Italian proverb
Sometimes an egg is given for an ox.	Italian proverb
A hundred years cannot repair a moment’s loss of honour.	Italian proverb
The she-bear thinks her cubs pretty.	Italian proverb
For the flying enemy a golden bridge.	Italian proverb
The most prudent yields to the strongest.	Italian proverb
The worst pig gets the best pear.	Italian proverb
Saying is one thing, doing another.	Italian proverb
I saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa.	Italian proverb
He hauls at a long rope who expects another’s death.	Italian proverb
Give a clown your finger he’ll grasp your fist.	Italian proverb
Love your friend with his faults.	Italian proverb
At a dangerous passage yield precedence.	Italian proverb
Let him not be a lover who has not courage.	Italian proverb
You will not be loved if you think of yourself alone.	Italian proverb
An ambassador beareth no blame.	Italian proverb
The friendship of the great is fraternity with lions.	Italian proverb
Reconciled friendship is a wound ill salved.	Italian proverb
He’s a friend at sneezing-time,—the most that can be got from him is a “God bless you.”.	Italian proverb
A friend, and look to thyself.	Italian proverb
Many stop their noses at ambergris.	Italian proverb
Love’s merchandise is jealousy and broken faith.	Italian proverb
Love is the true price at which love is bought.	Italian proverb
Love and lordship like not fellowship.	Italian proverb
Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide.	Italian proverb
Love demands faith, and faith firmness.	Italian proverb
To a crazy ship every wind is contrary.	Italian proverb
Even counted sheep are eaten by the wolf.	Italian proverb
Even the just has need of help.	Italian proverb
Even the sea, great as it is, grows calm.	Italian proverb
Even the fool says a wise word sometimes.	Italian proverb
The sun passes over filth and is not defiled.	Italian proverb
Even a frog would bite if it had teeth.	Italian proverb
I too can lead the geese to water when it rains.	Italian proverb
Even among the apostles there was a Judas.	Italian proverb
Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail.	Italian proverb
Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles.	Italian proverb
Even old foxes are caught in the snare.	Italian proverb
No comforter’s head ever aches.	Italian proverb
No one likes justice brought home to his own door.	Italian proverb
Years and sins are always more than owned.	Italian proverb
Whoever brings finds the door open for him.	Italian proverb
Open thy mouth that I may know thee.	Italian proverb
Unbending the bow does not heal the wound.	Italian proverb
Skill or fortune will efface the spots.	Italian proverb
By their marks the bales are known.	Italian proverb
A braying ass eats little hay.	Italian proverb
To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of.	Italian proverb
Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry.	Italian proverb
Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not.	Italian proverb
Enough is enough, and too much spoils.	Italian proverb
Who serves well and says nothing makes claim enough.	Italian proverb
He is rich enough who does not want.	Italian proverb
He gains much who loses a vain hope.	Italian proverb
Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow.	Italian proverb
He who knows nothing knows enough, if he knows how to be silent.	Italian proverb
Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind.	Italian proverb
At table bashfulness is out of place.	Italian proverb
He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time.	Italian proverb
The same shoe does not fit every foot.	Italian proverb
A great liar has need of good memory.	Italian proverb
To have “heard say” is half a lie.	Italian proverb
To have one eye on the cat and another on the frying-pan.	Italian proverb
A ragged coat finds little credit.	Italian proverb
Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool.	Italian proverb
An old flag is an honour to its captain.	Italian proverb
A beard well lathered is half-shaved.	Italian proverb
One fool is enough in a house.	Italian proverb
Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse.	Italian proverb
Beat the churl and he will be your friend.	Italian proverb
Happy is she who is in love with an old dotard.	Italian proverb
A fine shot never killed a bird.	Italian proverb
A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping.	Italian proverb
Fair words, but look to your purse.	Italian proverb
He loves well who does not forget.	Italian proverb
Though a lie be swift, truth overtakes it.	Italian proverb
Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings.	Italian proverb
He is very blind who cannot see the sun.	Italian proverb
Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone.	Italian proverb
Say what we will, do what we will, the boat goes but sorrily without oars.	Italian proverb
Cap in hand never did any harm.	Italian proverb
Drink wine and let water go to the mill.	Italian proverb
To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying.	Italian proverb
You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run.	Italian proverb
You must shift your sail with the wind.	Italian proverb
A greased mouth cannot say no.	Italian proverb
A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings.	Italian proverb
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.	Italian proverb
A good appetite does not want sauce.	Italian proverb
It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise.	Italian proverb
He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages.	Italian proverb
A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick.	Italian proverb
He who pays well is master of other men’s purses.	Italian proverb
A good paymaster does not hesitate to give good security.	Italian proverb
To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire.	Italian proverb
A horse falls though he has four legs.	Italian proverb
Cadono le miglior pere in bocca a’ porci.	Italian proverb
The kick of a mare never hurt a colt.	Italian proverb
The dog that bites does not bark in vain.	Italian proverb
The gardener’s dog does not eat lettuce and will not let others eat it.	Italian proverb
The dog barks and the ox feeds.	Italian proverb
A hungry dog does not fear the stick.	Italian proverb
A kitchen dog never was good for the chase.	Italian proverb
The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide.	Italian proverb
An old dog does not grow used to the collar.	Italian proverb
A voluntary burthen is no burthen.	Italian proverb
That costs dear which is bought with begging.	Italian proverb
The house completed, possession defeated.	Italian proverb
Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace.	Italian proverb
The fortress that parleys soon surrenders.	Italian proverb
Bad is the wool that cannot be died.	Italian proverb
Bad is the sack that will not bear patching.	Italian proverb
A runaway horse punishes himself.	Italian proverb
He takes out a nail and puts in a pin.	Italian proverb
He is in search of a ram with five feet.	Italian proverb
How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?.	Italian proverb
He that wants should not be bashful.	Italian proverb
He that is drowning shouts though he be not heard.	Italian proverb
Who judges others, condemns himself.	Italian proverb
Who troubles others has no rest himself.	Italian proverb
Who loves the tree loves the branch.	Italian proverb
He who is an ass and thinks himself a stag, finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch.	Italian proverb
He who can wait obtains what he wishes.	Italian proverb
He who guesses well prophesies well.	Italian proverb
Who gives well, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl.	Italian proverb
He who sleeps well does not feel the fleas.	Italian proverb
He preaches well who lives well.	Italian proverb
He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet.	Italian proverb
He who sings drives away sorrow.	Italian proverb
He that seeks, finds, and sometimes what he would rather not.	Italian proverb
He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk.	Italian proverb
He who buys betimes buys cheaply.	Italian proverb
He who buys what he cannot pay for, sells what he would rather not.	Italian proverb
He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice.	Italian proverb
He who buys the broom can also buy the handle.	Italian proverb
Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head.	Italian proverb
He who gives bread to others’ dogs is often barked at by his own.	Italian proverb
He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard.	Italian proverb
He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others.	Italian proverb
He who demands does not command.	Italian proverb
He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have.	Italian proverb
Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share.	Italian proverb
Who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas.	Italian proverb
He who sleeps catches no fish.	Italian proverb
He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape.	Italian proverb
He who serves two masters must lie to one of them.	Italian proverb
He who is under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs.	Italian proverb
He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself.	Italian proverb
He who is of the craft can discourse about it.	Italian proverb
He who is embarked with the devil must make the passage in his company.	Italian proverb
He that is in fault is in suspicion.	Italian proverb
He who is in hell knows not what heaven is.	Italian proverb
He who is guilty believes that all men speak ill of him.	Italian proverb
He that is born to be hanged will never be drowned.	Italian proverb
Who errs in the tens errs in the thousands.	Italian proverb
He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost.	Italian proverb
He who does as he likes has no headache.	Italian proverb
He who builds on another’s ground loses his stone and mortar.	Italian proverb
He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors.	Italian proverb
He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low.	Italian proverb
He who doth his own business defileth not his fingers.	Italian proverb
Who does all he may never does well.	Italian proverb
Who builds on the mob builds on sand.	Italian proverb
Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke.	Italian proverb
He who has a good horse in his stable may go on foot.	Italian proverb
He who has a good neighbour has a good morning.	Italian proverb
He who has a head of wax must not walk in the sun.	Italian proverb
He who has a bad name is half hanged.	Italian proverb
He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire.	Italian proverb
He who has a mate has a master.	Italian proverb
He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand.	Italian proverb
He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by.	Italian proverb
He who has teeth has no bread, and he who has bread has no teeth.	Italian proverb
Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak.	Italian proverb
Who has love in his heart has spurs in his sides.	Italian proverb
Who has a tongue in his head can go all the world over.	Italian proverb
He who has a bad tongue should have good loins.	Italian proverb
He that has swallowed the devil may swallow his horns.	Italian proverb
He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is.	Italian proverb
Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece.	Italian proverb
Who has patience sees his revenge.	Italian proverb
He that is afraid of the devil does not grow rich.	Italian proverb
Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood.	Italian proverb
Who hath little shame the world is all his own.	Italian proverb
Who has something is something.	Italian proverb
Who is in the right fears, who is in the wrong hopes.	Italian proverb
He who suspects is seldom at fault.	Italian proverb
He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour’s.	Italian proverb
He that has but one pig easily fattens it.	Italian proverb
He who does the wrong forgets it, but not he who receives it.	Italian proverb
He who has a tongue, may go to Rome.	Italian proverb
He who begins ill finishes worse.	Italian proverb
Evil be to him who evil thinks.	Italian proverb
He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best.	Italian proverb
He who begins many things finishes few.	Italian proverb
He that shows his money shows his judgment.	Italian proverb
Who changes country changes luck.	Italian proverb
Who changes his condition changes fortune.	Italian proverb
She who is born a beauty is born betrothed.	Italian proverb
Who is born a fool is never cured.	Italian proverb
When a man has fallen into the mire, the more he flounders the more he fouls himself.	Italian proverb
He who says nothing never lies.	Italian proverb
He who knows nothing never doubts.	Italian proverb
Who has never done thinking never begins doing.	Italian proverb
He that never fails never grows rich.	Italian proverb
He who does not when he can, cannot when he will.	Italian proverb
Who hath no courage must have legs.	Italian proverb
Who has no money in his purse must have honey in his mouth.	Italian proverb
He who is without debt is without credit.	Italian proverb
Who has no children does not know what love is.	Italian proverb
Who has nothing fears nothing.	Italian proverb
Who has no plagues makes himself some.	Italian proverb
Who has no money must have no wishes.	Italian proverb
Who has no head should have legs.	Italian proverb
Who has no shame all the world is his own.	Italian proverb
Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle.	Italian proverb
He who cannot revenge himself is weak, he who will not is contemptible.	Italian proverb
He who is unable is always willing.	Italian proverb
There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs.	Italian proverb
Who knows not how to flatter knows not how to talk.	Italian proverb
Who knows not how to dissemble knows not how to reign.	Italian proverb
Who knows not how to pray let him go sail the sea.	Italian proverb
He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king.	Italian proverb
Who goes not, sees not; who proves not, believes not.	Italian proverb
Don’t cross the water unless you see the bottom.	Italian proverb
He that will not strive in this world should not have come into it.	Italian proverb
Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop.	Italian proverb
Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin.	Italian proverb
He who will not serve one master must needs serve many.	Italian proverb
Who offends writes on sand; who is offended, on marble.	Italian proverb
Who pays a debt creates capital.	Italian proverb
Who pays beforehand is served behindhand.	Italian proverb
The talker sows, the listener reaps.	Italian proverb
He who loses is always in fault.	Italian proverb
Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing.	Italian proverb
Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present.	Italian proverb
He that paints a flower does not give it perfume.	Italian proverb
Who knows most, forgives most.	Italian proverb
Who knows most believes least.	Italian proverb
Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed.	Italian proverb
The first at the mill grinds first.	Italian proverb
Who laughs at others’ ills, has his own behind the door.	Italian proverb
He who knows the road can ride full trot.	Italian proverb
The best swimmer is the first to drown himself.	Italian proverb
He who knows but little quickly tells it.	Italian proverb
He who serves the public has a sorry master.	Italian proverb
Who serves the public, serves no one.	Italian proverb
He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant.	Italian proverb
A drowning man would catch at razors.	Italian proverb
He who has scalded himself once blows the next time.	Italian proverb
He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine.	Italian proverb
Make yourself a sheep and the wolves will eat you.	Italian proverb
He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow.	Italian proverb
He who praises himself befouls himself.	Italian proverb
Who excuses himself accuses himself.	Italian proverb
Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest.	Italian proverb
He who blows upon dust fills his eyes with it.	Italian proverb
He who looks on has two-thirds of the game.	Italian proverb
Let him who is well off stay where he is.	Italian proverb
He who touches pitch defiles himself.	Italian proverb
He who grasps too much holds nothing fast.	Italian proverb
He who denies all confesses all.	Italian proverb
He who chastises one threatens a hundred.	Italian proverb
He who goes to the mill gets befloured.	Italian proverb
Who moves picks up, who stands still dries up.	Italian proverb
Who goes softly goes safely, and he that goes safely goes far.	Italian proverb
Who goes himself is in earnest, who sends is indifferent.	Italian proverb
The last comer shuts the door.	Italian proverb
He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men’s too.	Italian proverb
He who lives among wolves learns to howl.	Italian proverb
Who would have many friends let him test but few.	Italian proverb
He who wants his dog killed has only to say he’s mad.	Italian proverb
He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months.	Italian proverb
He who wants a good deal must not ask for a little.	Italian proverb
He who would relish his food must not see it cooked.	Italian proverb
He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick.	Italian proverb
He who would have clear water should go to the fountain head.	Italian proverb
He who would be long an old man must begin betimes.	Italian proverb
He that would be ill served should keep plenty of servants.	Italian proverb
He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve.	Italian proverb
If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand.	Italian proverb
He that seeks to have many friends never has any.	Italian proverb
He that would have a thing done quickly and well must do it himself.	Italian proverb
Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter.	Italian proverb
He that would heal a wound must not handle it.	Italian proverb
He who would stop every man’s mouth must have a great deal of meal.	Italian proverb
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.	Italian proverb
There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse.	Italian proverb
The eye is blind if the mind is absent.	Italian proverb
That which is customary requires no excuse.	Italian proverb
A starved town is soon forced to surrender.	Italian proverb
An ass’s tail will not make a sieve.	Italian proverb
Pluck the rose and leave the thorns.	Italian proverb
The golden key opens every door.	Italian proverb
With the Gospel men may become heretics.	Italian proverb
When the tree is down every one runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood.	Italian proverb
He begins to grow bad who believes himself good.	Italian proverb
Buy the bed of a great debtor.	Italian proverb
With the fox one must play the fox.	Italian proverb
The unfortunate know who are their real friends.	Italian proverb
The world is governed with little brains.	Italian proverb
I being satisfied, the world is satisfied.	Italian proverb
An old quarrel is easily renewed.	Italian proverb
Counsel is nothing against love.	Italian proverb
The full belly does not believe in hunger.	Italian proverb
The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool.	Italian proverb
What is bought is cheaper than a gift.	Italian proverb
Credit is dead, bad pay killed it.	Italian proverb
Believe a boaster as you would a liar.	Italian proverb
A stout heart overcomes ill fortune.	Italian proverb
From those I trust God guard me, from those I mistrust I will guard myself.	Italian proverb
Beware of him who makes you presents.	Italian proverb
The wolf is always left out of the reckoning.	Italian proverb
From saying to doing is a long way.	Italian proverb
From still water God keep me; from running water I will keep myself.	Italian proverb
Between the hand and the month the soup is spilt.	Italian proverb
From snow whether cooked or pounded you will get nothing but water.	Italian proverb
There is no getting blood from a turnip.	Italian proverb
From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall.	Italian proverb
The lion is known by his claws.	Italian proverb
Poor men’s money and cowards’ weapons are often flourished.	Italian proverb
Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom.	Italian proverb
Give the priest drink, for the clerk is thirsty.	Italian proverb
Of the great and of the dead either speak well or say nothing.	Italian proverb
There’s no disputing about tastes.	Italian proverb
Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill.	Italian proverb
A hair of the dog cures the bite.	Italian proverb
Every one thinks he has more than his share of brains.	Italian proverb
Broad thongs may be cut from other men’s leather.	Italian proverb
Of judgment every one has a stock on hand for sale.	Italian proverb
The tree is not to be judged of by its bark.	Italian proverb
Love is an excuse for its own faults.	Italian proverb
Every ditch is full of after-wit.	Italian proverb
There is no appeal from time past.	Italian proverb
He is not a thorough wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion.	Italian proverb
It is truth that makes a man angry.	Italian proverb
In at one ear and out at the other.	Italian proverb
Poor men do penance for rich men’s sins.	Italian proverb
Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck.	Italian proverb
Hell is full of good intentions.	Italian proverb
The mouse does not leave the cat’s house with a bellyful.	Italian proverb
I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law.	Italian proverb
Of what does not concern you say nothing, good or bad.	Italian proverb
The hare starts from where it is least expected.	Italian proverb
Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you.	Italian proverb
Bad grass does not make good hay.	Italian proverb
Tell me the company you keep, and I’ll tell you what you are.	Italian proverb
God heals and the doctor has the thanks.	Italian proverb
God sends cold according to the clothes.	Italian proverb
God save me from one who does not drink.	Italian proverb
God save me from him who studies but one book.	Italian proverb
God save me from him who has but one occupation.	Italian proverb
God sends nothing but what can be borne.	Italian proverb
Of this world each man has as much as he takes.	Italian proverb
God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle.	Italian proverb
The father a saint the son a devil.	Italian proverb
A little man often casts a long shadow.	Italian proverb
The doctor seldom takes physic.	Italian proverb
Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up.	Italian proverb
Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocates’ tongues, notaries’ fingers, and a third that shall be nameless.	Italian proverb
Out of a white egg often comes a black chick.	Italian proverb
Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door.	Italian proverb
A crown is no cure for the headache.	Italian proverb
Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg.	Italian proverb
A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear.	Italian proverb
The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver.	Italian proverb
A woman who loves to be at the window is like a bunch of grapes on the wayside.	Italian proverb
A woman’s in pain, a woman’s in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so.	Italian proverb
Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough.	Italian proverb
To lock the stable after the horses are taken.	Italian proverb
After shaving there is nothing to shear.	Italian proverb
After one pope another is made.	Italian proverb
Where remedies are needed, sighing avails not.	Italian proverb
Where the lion’s skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox.	Italian proverb
Where there is great love there is great pain.	Italian proverb
Where the Pope is there is Rome.	Italian proverb
Where love is there the eye is.	Italian proverb
Where there is least heart there is most tongue.	Italian proverb
When the wine’s in the wit’s out.	Italian proverb
When wine enters modesty departs.	Italian proverb
Where the river is deepest it makes least noise.	Italian proverb
Where the hedge is low every one will cross it.	Italian proverb
When the will is prompt the legs are nimble.	Italian proverb
When gold speaks every tongue is silent.	Italian proverb
He must stoop that has a low door.	Italian proverb
Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox.	Italian proverb
Where there is not equality there never can be perfect love.	Italian proverb
The water breaks out where it is not expected.	Italian proverb
Where there are no dogs the fox is a king.	Italian proverb
Where there are too many cooks the soup will be too salty.	Italian proverb
Where the wolf found a lamb he looks for another.	Italian proverb
Where the ship goes the brig can go.	Italian proverb
Two women and a goose make a market.	Italian proverb
The anvil lasts longer than the hammer.	Italian proverb
Hard is a new law imposed on old licence.	Italian proverb
Hard upon hard never made a good wall.	Italian proverb
The cock is bold on his own dunghill.	Italian proverb
It is easy to preach fasting with a full belly.	Italian proverb
It is good to have friends everywhere.	Italian proverb
It is good to buy when another wants to sell.	Italian proverb
It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming.	Italian proverb
He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim.	Italian proverb
It is easy to threaten a bull from a window.	Italian proverb
He knows well where the thorn pricks him.	Italian proverb
He sets the wolf to guard the sheep.	Italian proverb
He would be a good one to send for death.	Italian proverb
He may lie safely who comes from afar.	Italian proverb
He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet.	Italian proverb
He measures others with his own yard.	Italian proverb
He knows where the devil carries his tail.	Italian proverb
He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood.	Italian proverb
He sells the bird on the branch.	Italian proverb
He would sell even his share of the sun.	Italian proverb
He cries out before he is hurt.	Italian proverb
It is a bad thing to be a knave, but worse to be known for one.	Italian proverb
It is not easy to steal in thieves’ houses.	Italian proverb
Better have an egg to-day than a hen to-morrow.	Italian proverb
Better have one bee than a host of flies.	Italian proverb
Better to fall from the window than the roof.	Italian proverb
Better give than have to give.	Italian proverb
Better give the wool than the sheep.	Italian proverb
Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion.	Italian proverb
Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon.	Italian proverb
Better alone than in bad company.	Italian proverb
Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage.	Italian proverb
A happy heart is better than a full purse.	Italian proverb
It is better to leave than to lack.	Italian proverb
Better lose the saddle than the horse.	Italian proverb
Better slip with the foot than with the tongue.	Italian proverb
It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw.	Italian proverb
It is better to irritate a dog than an old woman.	Italian proverb
Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence.	Italian proverb
One living pope is better than ten dead.	Italian proverb
A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin.	Italian proverb
A bird in the cage is worth a hundred at large.	Italian proverb
Thick wine is better than clear water.	Italian proverb
A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair.	Italian proverb
There is never a cry of “Wolf!” but the wolf is in the district.	Italian proverb
He is the world’s master who despises it, its slave who prizes it.	Italian proverb
He is master of another man’s life who is indifferent to his own.	Italian proverb
The point of the thorn is small, but he who has felt it does not forget it.	Italian proverb
It is always good to have two strings to your bow.	Italian proverb
One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few.	Italian proverb
It’s a bad mouthful that chokes.	Italian proverb
It is a bad game where nobody wins.	Italian proverb
There goes more than one ass to market.	Italian proverb
Do good, and care not to whom.	Italian proverb
It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog.	Italian proverb
Make me a prophet and I will make you rich.	Italian proverb
Little children and headaches, great children and heartaches.	Italian proverb
Don’t reckon your eggs before they are laid.	Italian proverb
To make two nails at one heat.	Italian proverb
I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it.	Italian proverb
No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered.	Italian proverb
Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you.	Italian proverb
He is not happy who knows it not.	Italian proverb
Women and hens are lost by too much gadding.	Italian proverb
Trust was a good man, Trust-not was a better.	Italian proverb
Lasses and glasses are always in danger.	Italian proverb
Until death there is no knowing what may befall.	Italian proverb
Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine.	Italian proverb
Between saying and doing many a pair of shoes is worn out.	Italian proverb
Among men of honour a word is a bond.	Italian proverb
God keep me from my friends, from my enemies I will keep myself.	Italian proverb
Friar Modest never was a prior.	Italian proverb
A golden bit makes none the better horse.	Italian proverb
A muffled cat is no good mouser.	Italian proverb
Borderers are either thieves or murderers.	Italian proverb
To throw the rope after the bucket.	Italian proverb
The earth covers the errors of the physician.	Italian proverb
The Italians are wise before the act, the Germans in the act, the French after the act.	Italian proverb
Starlings are lean because they go in flocks.	Italian proverb
Men after the modern fashion, and asses after the ancient.	Italian proverb
Men make wealth, and women preserve it.	Italian proverb
Men are as old as they feel, and women as they look.	Italian proverb
The flatterer’s throat is an open sepulchre.	Italian proverb
A new broom is good for three days.	Italian proverb
A great church and little devotion.	Italian proverb
A fat kitchen, a lean testament.	Italian proverb
Take care you don’t let your tail be caught in the door.	Italian proverb
Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine.	Italian proverb
Beware of one who has nothing to lose.	Italian proverb
Keep yourself from opportunities and God will keep you from sins.	Italian proverb
Dogs bark at those they don’t know.	Italian proverb
Blows are not given upon conditions.	Italian proverb
Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it.	Italian proverb
Forbidden fruit is the sweetest.	Italian proverb
Liars should have good memories.	Italian proverb
The good seaman is known in bad weather.	Italian proverb
He that is good for something is the ass of the public.	Italian proverb
Good is good, but better beats it.	Italian proverb
He who pays well is master of another’s purse.	Italian proverb
The good shepherd shears, not flays.	Italian proverb
The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow.	Italian proverb
The dog that means to bite don’t bark.	Italian proverb
The scalded dog fears cold water.	Italian proverb
A blind man is no judge of colours.	Italian proverb
Money is an epitome of human power.	Italian proverb
Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail.	Italian proverb
The devil is bad because he is old.	Italian proverb
The devil is not so ugly as he is painted.	Italian proverb
When the devil is old he turns hermit.	Italian proverb
The devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil.	Italian proverb
The end of the corsair is to drown.	Italian proverb
The river does not swell with clear water.	Italian proverb
Fire drives the wasp out of its nest.	Italian proverb
Fire is not quenched with fire.	Italian proverb
The lion had need of the mouse.	Italian proverb
It is not the long day, but the heart that does the work.	Italian proverb
The wolf is not always a wolf.	Italian proverb
The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it.	Italian proverb
The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene.	Italian proverb
The myrtle is always a myrtle, though it be among nettles.	Italian proverb
The mill does not grind without water.	Italian proverb
The world belongs to the phlegmatic.	Italian proverb
The world is for him who has patience.	Italian proverb
The world is like a staircase; some go up, others go down.	Italian proverb
The world wags on with three things: doing, undoing, and pretending.	Italian proverb
The mortar always smells of garlic.	Italian proverb
Others’ bread has seven crusts.	Italian proverb
A man’s own opinion is never wrong.	Italian proverb
The difficult thing is to get foot in the stirrup.	Italian proverb
The hardest step is that over the threshold.	Italian proverb
The strongest is always in the right.	Italian proverb
The beggar’s wallet has no bottom.	Italian proverb
The soldier’s blood exalts the captain.	Italian proverb
The well-fed man does not believe in hunger.	Italian proverb
The soldier is well paid for doing mischief.	Italian proverb
Marriages are not as they are made, but as they turn out.	Italian proverb
The best trees are the most beaten.	Italian proverb
No pear falls into a shut mouth.	Italian proverb
It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds.	Italian proverb
In a golden sheath a leaden knife.	Italian proverb
On a long journey even a straw is heavy.	Italian proverb
There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute.	Italian proverb
In war time there is pay for every horse.	Italian proverb
In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye.	Italian proverb
It is vain to fish if the hook is not baited.	Italian proverb
There is no fool like a learned fool.	Italian proverb
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse.	Italian proverb
Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood.	Italian proverb
The beard does not make the philosopher.	Italian proverb
The gown does not make the friar.	Italian proverb
Lovers’ purses are tied with cobwebs.	Italian proverb
The cask can give no other wine than that it contains.	Italian proverb
Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again.	Italian proverb
The tail is always the hardest part to flay.	Italian proverb
Conscience is as good as a thousand witnesses.	Italian proverb
The right hand is slave to the left.	Italian proverb
The gallows was made for the unlucky.	Italian proverb
Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy.	Italian proverb
The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet.	Italian proverb
Women’s tears are a fountain of craft.	Italian proverb
War makes robbers, and peace hangs them.	Italian proverb
The moon does not heed the baying of dogs.	Italian proverb
Friendship should be unpicked, not rent.	Italian proverb
A friend is not known till he is lost.	Italian proverb
The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot.	Italian proverb
For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour.	Italian proverb
The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak.	Italian proverb
The ship does not go without the boat.	Italian proverb
High birth is a poor dish on the table.	Italian proverb
The pan says to the pot: Keep off, or you’ll smutch me.	Italian proverb
Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken.	Italian proverb
The ass’s hide is used to the stick.	Italian proverb
The longest way round is the shortest way home.	Italian proverb
The back door is the one that robs the house.	Italian proverb
The first dish pleases every one.	Italian proverb
Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men’s tables.	Italian proverb
The eagle does not war against frogs.	Italian proverb
The frog does not bite because it cannot.	Italian proverb
Cowards’ weapons neither cut nor pierce.	Italian proverb
Wealth is not his who makes it, but his who enjoys it.	Italian proverb
Drop the jest when it is most amusing.	Italian proverb
An unasked for excuse infers transgression.	Italian proverb
The ass does not know the worth of his tail till he has lost it.	Italian proverb
La superbia andò a cavallo, e tornò a piedi.	Italian proverb
The white coat does not make the miller.	Italian proverb
The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger.	Italian proverb
The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap.	Italian proverb
The fox said the grapes were sour.	Italian proverb
Friendships are cheap when they can he bought by doffing the hat.	Italian proverb
Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out.	Italian proverb
Good bargains empty the purse.	Italian proverb
Bad news is the first to come.	Italian proverb
Things are not as they are, but as they are regarded.	Italian proverb
Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth.	Italian proverb
Women know a point more than the devil.	Italian proverb
Women rouge that they may not blush.	Italian proverb
’Tis good feasting in other men’s houses.	Italian proverb
Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people.	Italian proverb
When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance.	Italian proverb
The elephant does not feel a flea-bite.	Italian proverb
Threats are arms for the threatened.	Italian proverb
Words are female, deeds are male.	Italian proverb
It is the petty expenses that empty the purse.	Italian proverb
The roses fall, and the thorns remain.	Italian proverb
The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken.	Italian proverb
Hedges have no eyes, but they have ears.	Italian proverb
Lawyers’ robes are lined with the obstinacy of suitors.	Italian proverb
You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you.	Italian proverb
The sick man is free to say all.	Italian proverb
The Italianised Englishman is a devil incarnate.	Italian proverb
The eye of the master fattens the horse.	Italian proverb
Far from the eyes, far from the heart.	Italian proverb
A guest and a fish stink in three days.	Italian proverb
Our last garment is made without pockets.	Italian proverb
Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas.	Italian proverb
One door never shuts but another opens.	Italian proverb
Ill in kine and worse in beeves.	Italian proverb
A jade eats as much as a good horse.	Italian proverb
’Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf.	Italian proverb
It is better to have a husband without love than jealous.	Italian proverb
Better a near neighbour than a distant cousin.	Italian proverb
Whilst the grass grows the steed starves.	Italian proverb
A thousand probabilities do not make one truth.	Italian proverb
Measure three times and cut once.	Italian proverb
Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar.	Italian proverb
Many are brave when the enemy flies.	Italian proverb
Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit.	Italian proverb
A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent.	Italian proverb
A sheep’s bite is never more than skin deep.	Italian proverb
The beast once dead, the venom is dead.	Italian proverb
When I’m dead, everybody’s dead, and the pig too.	Italian proverb
The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for bread.	Italian proverb
Gluttony kills more than the sword.	Italian proverb
Neither women nor linen by candlelight.	Italian proverb
The best spices are in small bags.	Italian proverb
In the war of love who flies conquers.	Italian proverb
In prosperity no altars smoke.	Italian proverb
The moth does most mischief to the finest garment.	Italian proverb
In the fray the weak are strong.	Italian proverb
No good lawyer ever goes to law himself.	Italian proverb
No good doctor ever takes physic.	Italian proverb
No one ever became poor through giving alms.	Italian proverb
No one ever repented of having held his tongue.	Italian proverb
No one perceives where the shoe pinches but he who wears it.	Italian proverb
No wonder lasts more than three days.	Italian proverb
It is not enough to know how to steal, one must know also how to conceal.	Italian proverb
There is no need to bind up one’s head before it is broken.	Italian proverb
It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well.	Italian proverb
There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens.	Italian proverb
There’s no smoke without fire.	Italian proverb
None so deaf as he that will not hear.	Italian proverb
There is no worse joke than a true one.	Italian proverb
Don’t believe in the saint unless he works miracles.	Italian proverb
Do not give the dog bread every time he wags his tail.	Italian proverb
He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat.	Italian proverb
Speak not ill of the year until it is past.	Italian proverb
Handsome is not what is handsome, but what pleases.	Italian proverb
He is not a good mason who refuses any stone.	Italian proverb
He is in no place who is everywhere.	Italian proverb
The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it.	Italian proverb
It is no honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.	Italian proverb
He is not free who drags his chain after him.	Italian proverb
It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire.	Italian proverb
All is not butter that comes from the cow.	Italian proverb
He is not a man who cannot say no.	Italian proverb
There’s no making the ass drink when he is not thirsty.	Italian proverb
Never was a mewing cat a good mouser.	Italian proverb
There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper.	Italian proverb
A sack was never so full but it could hold another grain.	Italian proverb
There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water.	Italian proverb
Do not judge of the ship from the land.	Italian proverb
Don’t cry fried fish before they are caught.	Italian proverb
Two cocks in one yard do not agree.	Italian proverb
Don’t play with the bear if you don’t want to be bit.	Italian proverb
Call me not olive before you see me gathered.	Italian proverb
A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease.	Italian proverb
Don’t bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone.	Italian proverb
Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen.	Italian proverb
It is not every flower that smells sweet.	Italian proverb
Not every word requires an answer.	Italian proverb
The heart does not think all the mouth says.	Italian proverb
One never wept but another laughed.	Italian proverb
You cannot damage a wrecked ship.	Italian proverb
Nothing can come out of a sack but what is in it.	Italian proverb
No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be.	Italian proverb
Don’t mention the cross to the devil.	Italian proverb
The thief’s wife does not always laugh.	Italian proverb
Smooth words do not flay the tongue.	Italian proverb
The saint has no believers unless he works miracles.	Italian proverb
Never do evil that good may come of it.	Italian proverb
A thing is never much talked of but there is some truth in it.	Italian proverb
A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain.	Italian proverb
A dog is never offended at being pelted with bones.	Italian proverb
One cannot drink and whistle at the same time.	Italian proverb
You cannot draw blood from a turnip.	Italian proverb
One can’t enter Paradise in spite of the saints.	Italian proverb
There’s no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows.	Italian proverb
There’s no getting to heaven in a coach.	Italian proverb
One would not be alone in Paradise.	Italian proverb
All are not saints who go to church.	Italian proverb
Don’t put too tight a ring on your finger.	Italian proverb
It never thunders but it rains.	Italian proverb
All the sheep are not for the wolf.	Italian proverb
Not all are asleep who have their eyes shut.	Italian proverb
There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it.	Italian proverb
Don’t sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear.	Italian proverb
There’s no worse joke than a true one.	Italian proverb
There is no worse thief than a bad book.	Italian proverb
There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail.	Italian proverb
There is never enough where nought is left.	Italian proverb
Old birds are not caught with new nets.	Italian proverb
Hear the other side, and believe little.	Italian proverb
Hatred renewed is worse than at first.	Italian proverb
Extravagant offers are a kind of denial.	Italian proverb
There is a cause for all things.	Italian proverb
Everything is good for something.	Italian proverb
Everything may be borne except good fortune.	Italian proverb
Every ten years one man has need of another.	Italian proverb
All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold.	Italian proverb
Every fool is wise when he holds his tongue.	Italian proverb
Every fool wants to give advice.	Italian proverb
Every potter praises his pot, and most of all the one that is cracked.	Italian proverb
Any excuse is good if it hold good.	Italian proverb
Let not your shirt know all your thoughts.	Italian proverb
Every man has a good wife and a bad trade.	Italian proverb
Every wind does not shake down the nut.	Italian proverb
Every truth is not good to be told.	Italian proverb
Every vine must have its stake.	Italian proverb
Let every fox take care of his own tail.	Italian proverb
Every one finds fault with his own trade.	Italian proverb
Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money.	Italian proverb
Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough.	Italian proverb
Every one likes justice in another’s house, none in his own.	Italian proverb
Every one praises his own saint.	Italian proverb
Every one knows where his shoe pinches him.	Italian proverb
Every one thinks himself without sin because he has not those of others.	Italian proverb
Every one for himself and God for us all.	Italian proverb
Every one can navigate in fine weather.	Italian proverb
Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail.	Italian proverb
Every one goes with his own sack to the mill.	Italian proverb
The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool.	Italian proverb
Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs.	Italian proverb
Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing.	Italian proverb
The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse.	Italian proverb
The feast passes and the fool remains.	Italian proverb
The river passed the saint forgotten.	Italian proverb
The danger past, the saint cheated.	Italian proverb
A clear bargain, a dear friend.	Italian proverb
Patience! said the wolf to the ass.	Italian proverb
He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap.	Italian proverb
He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows.	Italian proverb
He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money.	Italian proverb
That priest is a fool who decries his relics.	Italian proverb
A sin concealed is half forgiven.	Italian proverb
A sin confessed is half forgiven.	Italian proverb
The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful.	Italian proverb
A mild sheep is sucked by every lamb.	Italian proverb
The fear of war is worse than war itself.	Italian proverb
Pluck the magpie, and don’t make her scream.	Italian proverb
Lovers think others are blind.	Italian proverb
To preserve friendship one must build walls.	Italian proverb
To make the cart go you must grease the wheels.	Italian proverb
He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge.	Italian proverb
Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat.	Italian proverb
To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one’s back on God.	Italian proverb
On very small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep.	Italian proverb
Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail.	Italian proverb
There are good and bad everywhere.	Italian proverb
The election of the abbot is not stopped for want of a monk.	Italian proverb
In at one ear, out at the other.	Italian proverb
A wound foreseen pains the less.	Italian proverb
Unbending the bow does not cure the wound.	Italian proverb
Softly, barber, the water scalds.	Italian proverb
A little spark kindles a great fire.	Italian proverb
A little stone overturns a great cart.	Italian proverb
Bend the tree while it is young.	Italian proverb
Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin.	Italian proverb
To catch two pigeons with one bean.	Italian proverb
A cracked pot never fell off the hook.	Italian proverb
Longer than a day without bread.	Italian proverb
Near is my petticoat, but nearer is my smock.	Italian proverb
Greater fools than they of Zago, who dunged the steeple to make it grow.	Italian proverb
The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men’s.	Italian proverb
There are more threatened than slain.	Italian proverb
One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water.	Italian proverb
More unlucky than dogs in church.	Italian proverb
A liar is sooner caught than a cripple.	Italian proverb
Rather hat in hand than hand in purse.	Italian proverb
Rather an ass that carries than a horse that throws.	Italian proverb
Better gain in mud than lose in gold.	Italian proverb
The smoke of my own house is better than another man’s fire.	Italian proverb
One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants.	Italian proverb
It is easy robbing when the dog is quieted.	Italian proverb
A little gall makes a great deal of honey bitter.	Italian proverb
Since the house is on fire I will warm myself at the blaze.	Italian proverb
The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears.	Italian proverb
Entreat the churl and the bargain is broken off.	Italian proverb
Once resolved, the trouble is over.	Italian proverb
Priests, friars, nuns, and chickens never have enough.	Italian proverb
To promise more carts than oxen.	Italian proverb
To protest and knock one’s head against the wall is what everybody can do.	Italian proverb
To spur a horse on level ground.	Italian proverb
As is the lover so is the beloved.	Italian proverb
As you would have a daughter so choose a wife.	Italian proverb
When God will not the saints cannot.	Italian proverb
When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate.	Italian proverb
When rogues go in procession the devil carries the cross.	Italian proverb
When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase.	Italian proverb
When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon.	Italian proverb
When your devil was born, mine was going to school.	Italian proverb
When the millers are making an uproar, do you tie up your sacks.	Italian proverb
It is easy to give advice when all goes well.	Italian proverb
When woman reigns the devil governs.	Italian proverb
When the cat’s away the rats dance.	Italian proverb
When the cat’s away the mice dance.	Italian proverb
When the pear is ripe it must fall.	Italian proverb
When the fox preaches, take care of yourselves, hens.	Italian proverb
When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house.	Italian proverb
When there is nothing the church loses.	Italian proverb
When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep.	Italian proverb
When you see the wolf, do not look for his track.	Italian proverb
When fortune comes, open your doors.	Italian proverb
The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches.	Italian proverb
The more you stroke the cat’s back the more she sets up her tail.	Italian proverb
Money and friendship break the arms of justice.	Italian proverb
A farthing saved is twice earned.	Italian proverb
A wise man does at first what a fool must do at last.	Italian proverb
What does not poison, fattens.	Italian proverb
What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat.	Italian proverb
What costs little is little esteemed.	Italian proverb
That is pleasant to remember which was hard to endure.	Italian proverb
Wise lads and old fools were never good for anything.	Italian proverb
The braying of an ass does not reach heaven.	Italian proverb
A new net won’t catch an old bird.	Italian proverb
He laughs well who laughs last.	Italian proverb
Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle.	Italian proverb
To pull down the house for the sake of the mortar.	Italian proverb
A drop of water breaks a stone.	Italian proverb
When his head is broken he puts on his helmet.	Italian proverb
To steal the pig, and give away the pettitoes for God’s sake.	Italian proverb
A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel.	Italian proverb
He knows where the devil has his tail.	Italian proverb
A fool knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others.	Italian proverb
St. Francis shaved himself first, and then he shaved his brethren.	Italian proverb
Health without money is a half-malady.	Italian proverb
He would drown in a spoonful of water.	Italian proverb
A wise man and a fool together, know more than a wise man alone.	Italian proverb
The pope and a peasant know more than the pope alone.	Italian proverb
Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection.	Italian proverb
He is wise who learns at another’s cost.	Italian proverb
A threatened buffet is never well given.	Italian proverb
He is a fool who thinks that another does not think.	Italian proverb
To strip one altar to cover another.	Italian proverb
A lover’s anger is short-lived.	Italian proverb
If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers.	Italian proverb
A secret imparted is no longer a secret.	Italian proverb
If the young man knew, if the old man could, there is nothing but would be done.	Italian proverb
If I went to sea I should find it dry.	Italian proverb
If the wife sins the husband is not innocent.	Italian proverb
If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have.	Italian proverb
If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon.	Italian proverb
If you can’t bite, don’t show your teeth.	Italian proverb
If it rained maccaroni, what a fine time for gluttons!.	Italian proverb
If you are a mouse don’t follow frogs.	Italian proverb
If the hen had not cackled we should not know she had laid an egg.	Italian proverb
If you let them put the calf on your shoulders, it will not be long before they clap on the cow.	Italian proverb
The wolf is always said to be bigger than he is.	Italian proverb
If I sleep, I sleep for myself; if I work, I know not for whom.	Italian proverb
He would break his neck against a straw.	Italian proverb
There are more asses than carry sacks.	Italian proverb
There are more thieves than gibbets.	Italian proverb
It is good living under the shadow of the belfry.	Italian proverb
The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw.	Italian proverb
They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire.	Italian proverb
Who does too much often does little.	Italian proverb
Out of a great evil often comes a great good.	Italian proverb
To strip Peter to clothe Paul.	Italian proverb
One’s own spurs and another’s horse make the miles short.	Italian proverb
Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail.	Italian proverb
The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks.	Italian proverb
It’s a very proud horse that will not carry his oats.	Italian proverb
Cut off the dog’s tail, he remains a dog.	Italian proverb
One may have good eyes and see nothing.	Italian proverb
Many a one threatens and yet is afraid.	Italian proverb
Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it.	Italian proverb
Some who jest tell tales of themselves.	Italian proverb
There are some who despise pride with a greater pride.	Italian proverb
Does your neighbour bore you? Lend him a sequin.	Italian proverb
So many heads, so many brains.	Italian proverb
So many countries, so many customs.	Italian proverb
So good that he is good for nothing.	Italian proverb
It is all one whether you die of sickness or of love.	Italian proverb
The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there.	Italian proverb
The Trojans were wise too late.	Italian proverb
It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down.	Italian proverb
A stick is soon found to beat a dog.	Italian proverb
Nothing passes between asses but kicks.	Italian proverb
Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels.	Italian proverb
Between two cowards, he has the advantage who first detects the other.	Italian proverb
Reason lies between bridle and spur.	Italian proverb
There is never enmity between the cook and the butler.	Italian proverb
To throw the halter after the ass.	Italian proverb
Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew.	Italian proverb
It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent.	Italian proverb
He is a sorry barber who has but one comb.	Italian proverb
An ass’s trot does not last long.	Italian proverb
Let not your shirt know your secret.	Italian proverb
All the keys do not hang at one girdle.	Italian proverb
All the fingers are not alike.	Italian proverb
Not all words require an answer.	Italian proverb
At last the foxes all meet at the furrier’s.	Italian proverb
All saints do not work miracles.	Italian proverb
All are brave when the enemy flies.	Italian proverb
All the brains are not in one head.	Italian proverb
Everything may be repaired except the neckbone.	Italian proverb
To know everything is to know nothing.	Italian proverb
One daughter helps to marry the other.	Italian proverb
One hand washes the other, and both wash the face.	Italian proverb
One scabby sheep spoils a flock.	Italian proverb
One flea does not hinder sleep.	Italian proverb
A saddle fits more backs than one.	Italian proverb
One briar does not make a hedge.	Italian proverb
One good morsel and a hundred vexations.	Italian proverb
One basket of grapes does not make a vintage.	Italian proverb
One knife keeps another in its sheath.	Italian proverb
A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone.	Italian proverb
A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.	Italian proverb
One enemy is too much, and a hundred friends are not enough.	Italian proverb
One starts the hare, another catches it.	Italian proverb
One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues.	Italian proverb
A fool throws a stone into a well, and it requires a hundred wise men to get it out again.	Italian proverb
A little truth makes the whole lie pass.	Italian proverb
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.	Italian proverb
A married man is a caged bird.	Italian proverb
A slothful man never has time.	Italian proverb
An idle man is the devil’s bolster.	Italian proverb
A solitary man is either a brute or an angel.	Italian proverb
He got out of the mud and fell into the river.	Italian proverb
Go to the sea if you would fish well.	Italian proverb
A living ass is better than a dead doctor.	Italian proverb
An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge.	Italian proverb
Empty vessels make most noise.	Italian proverb
To sell the honey to one who has the bees.	Italian proverb
To sell the skin of the bear before it is caught.	Italian proverb
Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth.	Italian proverb
To have luck needs little wit.	Italian proverb
Fortune comes to him who strives for it.	Italian proverb
When the wine is in the wit is out.	Italian proverb
The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge.	Italian proverb
A threatened man lives longer than one that is hanged.	Italian proverb
To be content to let twelve pennies pass for a shilling.	Italian proverb
A coveteous abbot for one offering loses a hundred.	Spanish proverb
Abbot of Carçuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin.	Spanish proverb
Walls sink and dunghills rise.	Spanish proverb
On a fool’s beard all learn to shave.	Spanish proverb
With a staircase before you, you look for a rope to go down by.	Spanish proverb
Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby cloak.	Spanish proverb
For a good companion good company.	Spanish proverb
A lazy ox is little the letter for the goad.	Spanish proverb
No need to seek shelter for an old ox.	Spanish proverb
A hundred years hence we shall all be bald.	Spanish proverb
To every evil doer his evil day.	Spanish proverb
Every fool is pleased with his bauble.	Spanish proverb
A calças cortas abugeta largas.	Spanish proverb
Go not every evening to your brother’s house.	Spanish proverb
Go to your aunt’s house, but not every day.	Spanish proverb
A short halter for a greedy horse.	Spanish proverb
At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands.	Spanish proverb
A chico pajarillo, chico nidillo.	Spanish proverb
Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar.	Spanish proverb
A cuentas viejas, barajas nuevas.	Spanish proverb
Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt.	Spanish proverb
Praying to God and hitting with the hammer.	Spanish proverb
Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree.	Spanish proverb
Where you think there is bacon, there are not even hooks for it.	Spanish proverb
Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom.	Spanish proverb
Whither goest thou, misfortune? To where there is more.	Spanish proverb
Whither shall the ox go where he will not have to plough?.	Spanish proverb
Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go.	Spanish proverb
According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon.	Spanish proverb
Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter.	Spanish proverb
A great leap gives a great shake.	Spanish proverb
When our daughter is married sons-in-law are plenty.	Spanish proverb
To save for old age, earning a maravedi and drinking three.	Spanish proverb
There is no answer for Get out of my house, and What have you to do with my wife?.	Spanish proverb
Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you.	Spanish proverb
Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia’s wedding.	Spanish proverb
A la cabeça, la comida la endereça.	Spanish proverb
To the grateful man give more than he asks.	Spanish proverb
In the long run the greyhound kills the hare.	Spanish proverb
The wolf picks the ass’s fleas by moonlight.	Spanish proverb
To a woman and a magpie tell your secrets in the marketplace.	Spanish proverb
He expects to find water at the first stroke of the spade.	Spanish proverb
To beards with money cavaliers pay respect.	Spanish proverb
Jest so that it may not turn to earnest.	Spanish proverb
The ass dead, the barley at his tail.	Spanish proverb
When we think to catch we are sometimes caught.	Spanish proverb
A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep.	Spanish proverb
A good paymaster needs no security.	Spanish proverb
He who does not tire, achieves.	Spanish proverb
It little avails the unfortunate to be brave.	Spanish proverb
Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes.	Spanish proverb
Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy.	Spanish proverb
It is in putting it into the oven that the loaf is made crooked.	Spanish proverb
The envious man’s face grows sharp and his eyes big.	Spanish proverb
At the end the Gloria is chanted.	Spanish proverb
Don’t send away your cat for being a thief.	Spanish proverb
There is some distance between Peter and Peter.	Spanish proverb
Some day Peter will command as much as his master.	Spanish proverb
To a depraved taste sweet is bitter.	Spanish proverb
To shiver at work, and sweat at meals.	Spanish proverb
Wipe the nose of your neighbour’s son, and marry him to your daughter.	Spanish proverb
Ask not after a good man’s pedigree.	Spanish proverb
To the bold man fortune gives her hand.	Spanish proverb
The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born.	Spanish proverb
The tongue goes where the tooth aches.	Spanish proverb
Allá van leyes, do quieren reyes.	Spanish proverb
The spot will come out in the washing.	Spanish proverb
Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee.	Spanish proverb
He gathers up ashes and scatters flour.	Spanish proverb
The ox comes to the yoke at the call of his feeder.	Spanish proverb
Make way for a madman and a bull.	Spanish proverb
The worst pig gets the best acorn.	Spanish proverb
Deceive not thy physician, confessor, or lawyer.	Spanish proverb
If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand.	Spanish proverb
Expect not at another’s hand what you can do by your own.	Spanish proverb
The Mother of God appears to fools.	Spanish proverb
Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes.	Spanish proverb
To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing.	Spanish proverb
The wrong doer is never without a pretext.	Spanish proverb
He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war.	Spanish proverb
Him who errs, forgive once, but never twice.	Spanish proverb
It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing.	Spanish proverb
The rat that has but one hole is soon caught.	Spanish proverb
Don’t stop the way of a bull or of a current of air.	Spanish proverb
Give a clown your foot, and he’ll take your hand.	Spanish proverb
To a son-in-law and a hog you need show the way but once.	Spanish proverb
Love one that does not love you, answer one that does not call you, and you will run a fruitless race.	Spanish proverb
Hush, brideswoman, I knew all that before.	Spanish proverb
A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real’s worth of paper.	Spanish proverb
Mary Busybody never wants a bad day, and Hilary Drone has God to give and bring to her.	Spanish proverb
To love and be wise is impossible.	Spanish proverb
Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing.	Spanish proverb
When you can’t get meat, chickens and bacon are good.	Spanish proverb
When you can’t get bread, oat-cakes are not amiss.	Spanish proverb
A fair-weather friend changes with the wind.	Spanish proverb
Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour.	Spanish proverb
Everybody’s friend and nobody’s friend is all one.	Spanish proverb
Friendship broken may be soldered, but never made whole.	Spanish proverb
A reconciled friend is a double enemy.	Spanish proverb
A son-in-law’s friendship is a winter’s sun.	Spanish proverb
A boy’s love is water in a sieve.	Spanish proverb
A father’s love, for all other is air.	Spanish proverb
Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret.	Spanish proverb
Mad love—I for you, and you for another.	Spanish proverb
A great lance-thrust to a dead Moor.	Spanish proverb
The dead and the absent have no friends.	Spanish proverb
There is little use in watching a bad woman.	Spanish proverb
The mill gains by going, and not by standing still.	Spanish proverb
Talk as you go, husband, to the gallows.	Spanish proverb
To go rabbit catching with a dead ferret.	Spanish proverb
Let me go warm, and folks may laugh.	Spanish proverb
It is courage that vanquishes in war, and not good weapons.	Spanish proverb
Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man.	Spanish proverb
Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut.	Spanish proverb
Before the time great courage; when at the point, great fear.	Spanish proverb
In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald.	Spanish proverb
Before you marry, beware, for it is a knot difficult to untie.	Spanish proverb
The liar is sooner caught than the cripple.	Spanish proverb
No flies light on a boiling pot.	Spanish proverb
Throw that bone to another dog.	Spanish proverb
After a thrifty father, a prodigal son.	Spanish proverb
A palabras locas orejas sordas.	Spanish proverb
A Portuguese apprentice who can’t sew, yet would be cutting out.	Spanish proverb
To a hasty demand a leisure reply.	Spanish proverb
There is never a great dunghill at a sportsman’s door.	Spanish proverb
Good luck makes its way in by elbowing.	Spanish proverb
He is your friend who gets you out of a fray.	Spanish proverb
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.	Spanish proverb
She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law.	Spanish proverb
They are rich who have friends.	Spanish proverb
He loses his market who has nothing to sell.	Spanish proverb
You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret.	Spanish proverb
He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse.	Spanish proverb
He who is feared gets more than his own.	Spanish proverb
For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough.	Spanish proverb
Who has no bread to spare should not keep a dog.	Spanish proverb
They who don’t kill pigs must not expect black-puddings.	Spanish proverb
He who has a good wife can bear any evil.	Spanish proverb
He who has a bad wife can expect no happiness that can be so called.	Spanish proverb
To him that watches, everything is revealed.	Spanish proverb
Plough deep and you will have plenty of corn.	Spanish proverb
Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour’s breech.	Spanish proverb
The bow that is always bent slackens or breaks.	Spanish proverb
The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners.	Spanish proverb
Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent.	Spanish proverb
Arms and money require good hands.	Spanish proverb
My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire.	Spanish proverb
We are both carriers, and shall meet on the road.	Spanish proverb
He is in safety who rings the tocsin.	Spanish proverb
Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears.	Spanish proverb
The grapes are sour, said the fox when he could not reach them.	Spanish proverb
So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley.	Spanish proverb
An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill.	Spanish proverb
The golden ass passes everywhere.	Spanish proverb
The ass of many owners is food for wolves.	Spanish proverb
An ass let him be who brays at an ass.	Spanish proverb
He can do but little who cannot threaten another.	Spanish proverb
The cat always leaves her mark upon her friend.	Spanish proverb
I say it to you, daughter; hear it, daughter-in-law.	Spanish proverb
Tell your friend a lie; and if he keeps it secret, tell him the truth.	Spanish proverb
Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot.	Spanish proverb
Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won’t ask for cheese.	Spanish proverb
Right or wrong, ’tis our house up to the roof.	Spanish proverb
To your son give a good name and a trade.	Spanish proverb
We are not yet roasting, and already we make sops in the pan.	Spanish proverb
We have not yet saddled, and are already mounted.	Spanish proverb
Though the speaker be a fool, let the hearer be wise.	Spanish proverb
A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk.	Spanish proverb
Though your bloodhound be gentle, don’t bite him on the lip.	Spanish proverb
Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain.	Spanish proverb
Though my father-in-law is a good man, I do not like a dog with a bell.	Spanish proverb
Though you are a prudent old man, do not despise counsel.	Spanish proverb
Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart.	Spanish proverb
Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard.	Spanish proverb
Let there be food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it.	Spanish proverb
Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier.	Spanish proverb
Where you smart there I will hit you.	Spanish proverb
Three who help each other are as good as six.	Spanish proverb
They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin.	Spanish proverb
Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home.	Spanish proverb
The paunch warm, the foot sleepy.	Spanish proverb
Clay and lime conceal much evil.	Spanish proverb
A handsome man is not quite poor.	Spanish proverb
Happy the home in which there is no shaven crown.	Spanish proverb
He loves well who never forgets.	Spanish proverb
The mother reckons well, but the child reckons better.	Spanish proverb
He buys well who is not called a donkey.	Spanish proverb
For letter for worse they have married me.	Spanish proverb
A good thing lost is a good thing valued.	Spanish proverb
The ass knows well in whose face he brays.	Spanish proverb
The wise knows that he does not know; the ignoramus thinks he knows.	Spanish proverb
The fox knows well with whom he plays tricks.	Spanish proverb
I know well what I say when I ask for bread.	Spanish proverb
Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone.	Spanish proverb
A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend.	Spanish proverb
The mouth that says yes says no.	Spanish proverb
A buffeting threatened is never well given.	Spanish proverb
A good lawyer, a bad neighbour.	Spanish proverb
Good is the fowl which another rears.	Spanish proverb
The cat is friendly, but scratches.	Spanish proverb
Good words and bad deeds deceive both wise and simple.	Spanish proverb
A good heart breaks bad fortune.	Spanish proverb
I have a good jacket in France.	Spanish proverb
Good, good, good, but God keep my ass out of his rye.	Spanish proverb
Blessings on him that said, Face about.	Spanish proverb
All in the way of joke the wolf goes to the ass.	Spanish proverb
Play with an ass and he will flirt his tail in your face.	Spanish proverb
Play with the fool at home, and he will play with you abroad.	Spanish proverb
You want better bread than wheaten.	Spanish proverb
To look for five feet in a cat.	Spanish proverb
A lame goat will not sleep by day.	Spanish proverb
Every pedlar praises his own needles.	Spanish proverb
Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent.	Spanish proverb
Every cask smells of the wine it contains.	Spanish proverb
Every cock crows on his own dunghill.	Spanish proverb
Every potter praises his pot, especially if cracked.	Spanish proverb
Every one feels the cold according as he is clad.	Spanish proverb
Every one speaks of the fair as he himself finds it.	Spanish proverb
Every one in his own house, and God in all men’s.	Spanish proverb
Every man is the son of his own works.	Spanish proverb
Every one sneezes as God pleases.	Spanish proverb
Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour’s dry.	Spanish proverb
He falls into the pit who leads another into it.	Spanish proverb
Tripe broth, you make much of yourself.	Spanish proverb
Fox’s broth, cold and scalding.	Spanish proverb
Silence and look out, we shall catch both hen and chicks.	Spanish proverb
A cracked bell will never be sound.	Spanish proverb
The dog that has its bitch in town never barks well.	Spanish proverb
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout.	Spanish proverb
To sing out of tune and persist in it.	Spanish proverb
A capon eight months old is fit for a king’s table.	Spanish proverb
A devotee’s face, and a cat’s claws.	Spanish proverb
Marry your son when you will, and your daughter when you can.	Spanish proverb
A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of.	Spanish proverb
A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted.	Spanish proverb
I’ll marry, and eat the prime of the pot, and sit down first.	Spanish proverb
Chastise one that is worthless, and he will presently hate you.	Spanish proverb
A fortress on its guard is not surprised.	Spanish proverb
His bread fell into the honey.	Spanish proverb
A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers, are three hundred thieves.	Spanish proverb
Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour a good woman.	Spanish proverb
The mare’s kicks are caresses to the horse.	Spanish proverb
Invite your son-in-law to a fowl, and he will take away the lemon.	Spanish proverb
To eat and to scratch one has but to begin.	Spanish proverb
As the abbot sings the sacristan responds.	Spanish proverb
Like a collier’s sack, bad without and worse within.	Spanish proverb
No woman is ugly when she is dressed.	Spanish proverb
To draw the snake out of the hole with another’s hand.	Spanish proverb
The mill does not grind with water that has passed.	Spanish proverb
With money you would not know yourself, without money nobody would know you.	Spanish proverb
About the King and the Inquisition, hush!.	Spanish proverb
Rats do not play tricks with kittens.	Spanish proverb
What cures Sancho makes Martha sick.	Spanish proverb
It fares ill with the house where the spinning-wheel commands the sword.	Spanish proverb
War with all the world, and peace with England.	Spanish proverb
With a little wrong a man comes by his right.	Spanish proverb
A determined heart will not be counselled.	Spanish proverb
Husband, you are a cuckold: wife, who told you so?.	Spanish proverb
Nobody sows a thing that will not sell.	Spanish proverb
Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force.	Spanish proverb
Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes.	Spanish proverb
A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel.	Spanish proverb
Other folks’ cares kill the ass.	Spanish proverb
Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good.	Spanish proverb
God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner.	Spanish proverb
God gives almonds to one who has no teeth.	Spanish proverb
A bad man’s gift is like his master.	Spanish proverb
Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down.	Spanish proverb
Beware of a reconciled friend as of the devil.	Spanish proverb
From that dust comes this mud.	Spanish proverb
Under a good cloak may be a bad man.	Spanish proverb
Under a bad cloak there is a good tippler.	Spanish proverb
Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks.	Spanish proverb
Large thongs of another man’s leather.	Spanish proverb
Between two sharpers, the sharpest.	Spanish proverb
In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half.	Spanish proverb
An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage.	Spanish proverb
Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom.	Spanish proverb
I never was satisfied with “I will, I will.” One “take this” is better than two “I will give you.”.	Spanish proverb
Between Smith and Smith no money passes.	Spanish proverb
From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us.	Spanish proverb
From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself.	Spanish proverb
See how he has risen from a mayor to a hangman.	Spanish proverb
Beware of a bad woman, and put no trust in a good one.	Spanish proverb
Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost.	Spanish proverb
From snow, whether baked or boiled, you will get nothing but water.	Spanish proverb
Between saying and doing there is a long road.	Spanish proverb
Of the malady a man fears, he dies.	Spanish proverb
The wolf eats of what is counted.	Spanish proverb
The poor-houses are filled with the honestest people.	Spanish proverb
From my gossip’s bread a large piece for my godson.	Spanish proverb
Let them talk of me, and beg of me.	Spanish proverb
From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak.	Spanish proverb
The father a saint, the son a sinner.	Spanish proverb
From a silent person remove your dwelling.	Spanish proverb
Of other men’s leather large thongs.	Spanish proverb
A scabby colt may make a good horse.	Spanish proverb
Trust not your money to one whose eyes are bent on the ground.	Spanish proverb
A pig’s tail will never make a good arrow.	Spanish proverb
Right overstrained turns to wrong.	Spanish proverb
Coward against coward, the assailant conquers.	Spanish proverb
There’s no making a good cloak of bad cloth.	Spanish proverb
To break the constable’s head, and take refuge with the sheriff.	Spanish proverb
Since I wronged you, I have never liked you.	Spanish proverb
Every one is wise when the mischief is done.	Spanish proverb
After the house is finished, he deserts it.	Spanish proverb
I have counted a hundred and twenty holes in that nutmeg grater.	Spanish proverb
When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why.	Spanish proverb
Michael is quits; he lost a ducat and gained a rabbit.	Spanish proverb
Give a traitor good words and you make him loyal.	Spanish proverb
The devil lurks behind the cross.	Spanish proverb
Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain.	Spanish proverb
You have debts, and make debts still; if you’ve not lied, lie you will.	Spanish proverb
A fool sometimes gives good counsel.	Spanish proverb
An oak is not felled at one stroke.	Spanish proverb
Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short.	Spanish proverb
Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck.	Spanish proverb
What children hear their parents say by the fireside they repeat in the highway.	Spanish proverb
Said the frying pan to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom.	Spanish proverb
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her head.	Spanish proverb
Tell a lie, and you will bring out the truth.	Spanish proverb
Misers’ money goes twice to market.	Spanish proverb
God grant me to argue with those who understand me.	Spanish proverb
God deliver me from a man of one book.	Spanish proverb
God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night.	Spanish proverb
God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss.	Spanish proverb
God grant you fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little.	Spanish proverb
Tell it her once, and the devil will tell it her ten times.	Spanish proverb
Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless.	Spanish proverb
Do fuerza viene, derecho se pierde.	Spanish proverb
Be not an esquire where you were a page.	Spanish proverb
Where shall the ox go and not plough?.	Spanish proverb
The hare starts from where she is least expected.	Spanish proverb
Where they eat your meat let them pick the bones.	Spanish proverb
Where you lost your cloak, seek it.	Spanish proverb
Where one door is shut another opens.	Spanish proverb
Sleep over it, and you will come to a resolution.	Spanish proverb
When there are two friends to one purse, one sings, the other weeps.	Spanish proverb
Two birds of prey do not keep each other company.	Spanish proverb
A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor.	Spanish proverb
To throw up a feather in the air, and see where it falls.	Spanish proverb
To send one arrow after another.	Spanish proverb
Fall sick, and you will see who is your friend and who not.	Spanish proverb
What the abbot of Bamba cannot eat he gives away for the good of his soul.	Spanish proverb
The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance.	Spanish proverb
True love suffers no concealment.	Spanish proverb
Love and faith are seen in works.	Spanish proverb
Good news is rumoured and bad news flies.	Spanish proverb
A fool, if he holds his tongue, passes for wise.	Spanish proverb
The honest man enjoys the theft.	Spanish proverb
A good paymaster is keeper of others’ purses.	Spanish proverb
The fierce ox becomes tame on strange ground.	Spanish proverb
The tired ox plants his foot firmly.	Spanish proverb
The ox that butted me tossed me into a good place.	Spanish proverb
The ox without a bell is soon lost.	Spanish proverb
The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow.	Spanish proverb
The snail, to be rid of annoyances, bartered its eyes for horns.	Spanish proverb
The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn.	Spanish proverb
It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod.	Spanish proverb
When the rabbit has escaped, comes advice.	Spanish proverb
The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion’s.	Spanish proverb
The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another.	Spanish proverb
The wise man does not hang his knowledge on a hook.	Spanish proverb
To give is honour, to lose is grief.	Spanish proverb
Giving alms never lessens the purse.	Spanish proverb
Desire beautifies what is ugly.	Spanish proverb
A fast day is the eve of a feast day.	Spanish proverb
On a hot day muffle yourself the more.	Spanish proverb
The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect.	Spanish proverb
The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect.	Spanish proverb
The day you marry ’tis either kill or cure.	Spanish proverb
Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles.	Spanish proverb
A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts.	Spanish proverb
The dress does not make the friar.	Spanish proverb
The son of an ass brays twice a day.	Spanish proverb
It is a wise son that knows his own father.	Spanish proverb
The thread breaks where it is thinnest.	Spanish proverb
Man is fire, woman is tow; the devil comes with a bellows.	Spanish proverb
The poor man has his crop destroyed by hail every year.	Spanish proverb
Fire and love do not say “Go to your work.”.	Spanish proverb
Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle.	Spanish proverb
The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fig for those who us good have done.	Spanish proverb
The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits.	Spanish proverb
Where the wolf gets one lamb it looks for another.	Spanish proverb
The wolf commits no mischief at home.	Spanish proverb
The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday.	Spanish proverb
The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclinations.	Spanish proverb
The wolf and the fox are both in one story.	Spanish proverb
The kite’s malady, its wings broken and its beak sound.	Spanish proverb
The bad man always suspects knavery.	Spanish proverb
The evil which issues from thy mouth falls into thy bosom.	Spanish proverb
Folly is the most incurable of maladies.	Spanish proverb
A husband with one eye rather than with a son.	Spanish proverb
The best cast at dice is not to play.	Spanish proverb
The best feed of a horse is his master’s eye.	Spanish proverb
A melon and a woman are hard to know.	Spanish proverb
Lying and gossipping go hand in hand.	Spanish proverb
The lazy servant to save one step takes eight.	Spanish proverb
The mouse that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat.	Spanish proverb
The official who can’t lie may as well be out of the world.	Spanish proverb
Wipe your eye with your elbow.	Spanish proverb
The bread eaten, the company departed.	Spanish proverb
The smith’s dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth.	Spanish proverb
The gardener’s dog neither eats greens nor lets any one else eat them.	Spanish proverb
The gardener’s dog, neither full nor hungry.	Spanish proverb
When the old dog barks he gives counsel.	Spanish proverb
The master’s foot is manure for the estate.	Spanish proverb
The busy fly is in every man’s dish.	Spanish proverb
A measly hog infects the whole sty.	Spanish proverb
He who trifles with his enemy dies by his hand.	Spanish proverb
How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?.	Spanish proverb
He who is in the mud likes to get another into it.	Spanish proverb
He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro.	Spanish proverb
He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar.	Spanish proverb
He who makes a law should keep it.	Spanish proverb
He who doubts nothing knows nothing.	Spanish proverb
He who has no house of his own is everywhere at home.	Spanish proverb
He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her.	Spanish proverb
He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour’s.	Spanish proverb
With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned.	Spanish proverb
The king goes as far as he can, not so far as he would.	Spanish proverb
The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin.	Spanish proverb
Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon.	Spanish proverb
The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent.	Spanish proverb
The sharper soon cheats the covetous man.	Spanish proverb
The old man at home, and the young abroad, lie after the same fashion.	Spanish proverb
The old for want of ability, and the young for want of knowledge, let things be lost.	Spanish proverb
A hungry belly listens to no one.	Spanish proverb
The righteous man sins before an open chest.	Spanish proverb
No fly gets into a shut mouth.	Spanish proverb
Never speak of a rope in the house of a man who was hanged.	Spanish proverb
In the bagpiper’s house they are all dancers.	Spanish proverb
In a smith’s house the knife is wooden.	Spanish proverb
Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor.	Spanish proverb
In the rich woman’s house she always commands; he never.	Spanish proverb
In hunting and in love you begin when you like and leave off when you can.	Spanish proverb
To commit the sheep to the care of the wolf.	Spanish proverb
At an auction keep your mouth shut.	Spanish proverb
The best cloth has uneven threads.	Spanish proverb
A spot shows most on the finest cloth.	Spanish proverb
It is in vain to cast nets in a river where there are no fish.	Spanish proverb
Cheat me in the price and not in the goods.	Spanish proverb
Welcome, misfortune, if thou comest alone.	Spanish proverb
At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride.	Spanish proverb
He is out of danger who rings the alarm-bell.	Spanish proverb
In frosty weather a nail is worth a horse.	Spanish proverb
Hear first, and speak afterwards.	Spanish proverb
The one-eyed man is a king in the country of the blind.	Spanish proverb
On dry land even brackish water is good.	Spanish proverb
Between two friends a notary and two witnesses.	Spanish proverb
Never put your thumbs between two grinders.	Spanish proverb
Whilst the nurse suckles, we love her; when she is of no further use, she is forgotten.	Spanish proverb
Don’t kill the man at the count’s desire.	Spanish proverb
She is good who is close to the fire and does not burn.	Spanish proverb
She is good and honoured who is dead and buried.	Spanish proverb
Let there be writing before you pay, and receipt before you write.	Spanish proverb
If you listen at a hole, you will hear ill of yourself as well as others.	Spanish proverb
He is my friend who grinds at my mill.	Spanish proverb
Trust in God upon good security.	Spanish proverb
The friar who begs for God begs for two.	Spanish proverb
As for friars, live with them, eat with them, and walk with them; then sell them as they do themselves.	Spanish proverb
Fire, fire, many pots on, and one pea in them all.	Spanish proverb
The greyhound that starts many hares kills none.	Spanish proverb
She is fond of greens who kisses the gardener.	Spanish proverb
The scalded cat dreads cold water.	Spanish proverb
A mewing cat is never a good mouser.	Spanish proverb
Vainglory blossoms, and bears no fruit.	Spanish proverb
Enjoy your little whilst the fool is seeking for more.	Spanish proverb
A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow.	Spanish proverb
It is very savoury to eat scot free.	Spanish proverb
Grain by grain the hen fills her crop.	Spanish proverb
God keep you from “It is too late.”.	Spanish proverb
Alas! father, another daughter is born to you.	Spanish proverb
Talk little and well, and you will be looked upon as somebody.	Spanish proverb
Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market.	Spanish proverb
To reckon without the hostess.	Spanish proverb
Let the miracle be wrought, though it be by the devil.	Spanish proverb
To fawn with the tail, and bite with the mouth.	Spanish proverb
Hunger and cold give a man up to his enemy.	Spanish proverb
He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve.	Spanish proverb
He is a great simpleton who starves himself to feed another.	Spanish proverb
The account is correct, but not a sixpence appears.	Spanish proverb
Make good flour, and do not blow the trumpet.	Spanish proverb
Do what I say well, and not what I do ill.	Spanish proverb
Do what the friar says, and not what he does.	Spanish proverb
The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail.	Spanish proverb
A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended.	Spanish proverb
The magistrate’s son gets out of every scrape.	Spanish proverb
We have no son, and yet are giving him a name.	Spanish proverb
Needle and thread are half clothing.	Spanish proverb
God made us, and we admire ourselves.	Spanish proverb
A man that has had his fill is no eater.	Spanish proverb
He who has no head wants no hat.	Spanish proverb
To flee and to run are not all one.	Spanish proverb
Smoke, a dripping roof, and a scolding wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life.	Spanish proverb
Flying from the bull he fell into the river.	Spanish proverb
Take the middle of the way and thou wilt not fall.	Spanish proverb
The church, the sea, or the royal household, for whoever would thrive.	Spanish proverb
The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils.	Spanish proverb
Never advise a man to go to the wars, or to marry.	Spanish proverb
To go for wool and come back shorn.	Spanish proverb
The bath has sworn not to whiten the blackamoor.	Spanish proverb
The oaths of one who loves a woman are not to be believed.	Spanish proverb
It is fair and just to cheat the cheater.	Spanish proverb
Justice, but not in my own house.	Spanish proverb
The beast that goes well is never without some one to try his paces.	Spanish proverb
The mouth and the purse, shut.	Spanish proverb
Prosperity forgets father and mother.	Spanish proverb
Prison and Lent were made for the poor.	Spanish proverb
Charity well regulated begins at home.	Spanish proverb
To fetch water after the house is burned.	Spanish proverb
The mare’s kick does not harm the colt.	Spanish proverb
The cross on his breast, and the devil in his acts.	Spanish proverb
The cask smells of the wine it contains.	Spanish proverb
The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk.	Spanish proverb
Let the dog bark so he don’t bite me.	Spanish proverb
The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them.	Spanish proverb
The thorn comes into the world point foremost.	Spanish proverb
The secret in swimming is to know how to take care of your clothes.	Spanish proverb
The gutter by dropping wears the stone.	Spanish proverb
Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards.	Spanish proverb
The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife.	Spanish proverb
A long tongue betokens a short hand.	Spanish proverb
A bad wound may be cured, bad repute kills.	Spanish proverb
The wise hand does not all that the tongue says.	Spanish proverb
La manzana podrida perde a su compaña.	Spanish proverb
The most cautious passes for the most chaste.	Spanish proverb
The worst ewe dungs in the milking-pail.	Spanish proverb
The girl as she is taught, the flax as it is wrought.	Spanish proverb
The well-dressed woman draws her husband away from another woman’s door.	Spanish proverb
For whom does the blind man’s wife adorn herself?.	Spanish proverb
A handsome woman is either silly or vain.	Spanish proverb
The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept.	Spanish proverb
The more a woman admires her face, the more she ruins her house.	Spanish proverb
The old wife, if she does not serve for a pot, serves for a cover.	Spanish proverb
A woman and a glass are always in danger.	Spanish proverb
Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight.	Spanish proverb
A mule and a woman do what is expected of them.	Spanish proverb
The well-fed sheep makes a cloak of its tail.	Spanish proverb
The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall.	Spanish proverb
Poverty does not destroy virtue, nor does wealth bestow it.	Spanish proverb
The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady.	Spanish proverb
A fifth wheel to a cart is but an encumbrance.	Spanish proverb
The keys at the girdle, the dog in the larder.	Spanish proverb
Of soups and loves the first are the best.	Spanish proverb
Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs.	Spanish proverb
The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand.	Spanish proverb
The spider’s web lets the rat escape and catches the fly.	Spanish proverb
The land a man knows is his mother.	Spanish proverb
The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it.	Spanish proverb
One hand washes the other, and both the face.	Spanish proverb
The full-fed cow makes company of her tail.	Spanish proverb
It is a loss of soap to wash the ass’s head.	Spanish proverb
Truth, like oil, always comes to the surface.	Spanish proverb
Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil.	Spanish proverb
What is another’s always pines for its master.	Spanish proverb
What is mine is my own; my brother Juan’s is his and mine.	Spanish proverb
The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred.	Spanish proverb
Let what is lost go for God’s sake.	Spanish proverb
What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good.	Spanish proverb
What I see with my eyes I can guess with my fingers.	Spanish proverb
What the fool does at last the wise man does at first.	Spanish proverb
What is done, is done for this time.	Spanish proverb
What force cannot do ingenuity may.	Spanish proverb
What the she-wolf does pleases the he-wolf.	Spanish proverb
What a woman wills, God wills.	Spanish proverb
What is much desired is not believed when it comes.	Spanish proverb
What much is worth comes from the earth.	Spanish proverb
What does not happen in a year may happen in a moment.	Spanish proverb
What Christ does not take the exchequer takes.	Spanish proverb
What you dislike for yourself do not like for me.	Spanish proverb
What three know, everybody knows.	Spanish proverb
What is in use, wants no excuse.	Spanish proverb
What is whispered in your ear tell not to your husband.	Spanish proverb
The gardener’s feet do no harm to the garden.	Spanish proverb
They who don’t keep goats and yet sell kids, where do they get them?.	Spanish proverb
The earth hides as it takes, the physician’s mistakes.	Spanish proverb
Mother, marry me, marry me, or the gull will fly away with me.	Spanish proverb
Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter.	Spanish proverb
Rise early and watch, labour and catch.	Spanish proverb
Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese.	Spanish proverb
The goat can’t well cover herself with her tail.	Spanish proverb
Ill-luck upon ill-luck, and a stone for a pillow.	Spanish proverb
To-morrow will be another day.	Spanish proverb
Give orders and do no more, and nothing will come of it.	Spanish proverb
Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety.	Spanish proverb
Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine.	Spanish proverb
Marido, no veas: muger, ciega seas.	Spanish proverb
Money soothes more than a gentleman’s words.	Spanish proverb
A good word extinguishes more than a pailful of water.	Spanish proverb
The shirt is nearer than the frock.	Spanish proverb
My teeth are nearer than my kindred.	Spanish proverb
A hungry man discovers more than a hundred lawyers.	Spanish proverb
He who strives to do, does more than he who has the power.	Spanish proverb
There are more threatened than hurt.	Spanish proverb
A girl draws more than a rope.	Spanish proverb
It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one’s back.	Spanish proverb
Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good.	Spanish proverb
Better is the smoke of my own house than the fire of another’s.	Spanish proverb
A bad compromise is better than a successful suit.	Spanish proverb
A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing.	Spanish proverb
A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning.	Spanish proverb
Better they should say, “There he ran away,” than “There he died.”.	Spanish proverb
Better there should be too much than too little.	Spanish proverb
Better go about than be drowned.	Spanish proverb
Better have a bad ass than to be your own ass.	Spanish proverb
It is better to leap over the ditch than trust to the pleadings of good men.	Spanish proverb
Better one-eyed than stone blind.	Spanish proverb
One bee is better than a thousand flies.	Spanish proverb
Better one “Take this,” than two “I will give you.”.	Spanish proverb
A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar.	Spanish proverb
Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee.	Spanish proverb
Your cracked jug seems better to me than my sound one.	Spanish proverb
The dog wags his tail, not for you but for your bread.	Spanish proverb
Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir.	Spanish proverb
To put in a needle and take out a bar.	Spanish proverb
Whilst the tall wench is stooping, the little one has swept the house.	Spanish proverb
Miguel, Miguel, you have no bees, and yet sell honey.	Spanish proverb
You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel.	Spanish proverb
See that you tie so that you can untie.	Spanish proverb
To parade the gallows before the town.	Spanish proverb
The fox is knowing, but more knowing he who catches him.	Spanish proverb
Many kiss hands they would fain see chopped off.	Spanish proverb
He has much to do who would please everybody.	Spanish proverb
The wolf changes his teeth but not his disposition.	Spanish proverb
I don’t count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings.	Spanish proverb
Women, wind, and fortune, soon change.	Spanish proverb
In the garden more grows, than the gardener sows.	Spanish proverb
The ant gets wings that she may perish the sooner.	Spanish proverb
To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore.	Spanish proverb
No one would be an innkeeper but for money.	Spanish proverb
Fools and the perverse fill the lawyers’ purse.	Spanish proverb
Neither a good friar for friend, nor a bad one for enemy.	Spanish proverb
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can.	Spanish proverb
I neither give nor take, like a Jew on the Sabbath.	Spanish proverb
It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures.	Spanish proverb
I am neither at the ford nor the bridge.	Spanish proverb
Neither sign a paper without reading it, nor drink water without seeing it.	Spanish proverb
Neither handsome enough to kill, nor ugly enough to frighten.	Spanish proverb
Lose no rights, and commit no extortions.	Spanish proverb
No king was ever a traitor, or pope excommunicated.	Spanish proverb
Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar.	Spanish proverb
We are not roasting, and already we are basting.	Spanish proverb
There is no thief without a receiver.	Spanish proverb
Do not buy a carrier’s ass, or marry an innkeeper’s daughter.	Spanish proverb
Don’t believe what you see, husband, but only what I tell you.	Spanish proverb
Not he gives who likes, but who has.	Spanish proverb
May God not so prosper our friends that they forget us.	Spanish proverb
The threshold says nothing but what it hears of the hinge.	Spanish proverb
Let not the tongue utter what the head must pay for.	Spanish proverb
Let no one say, “Of this water I will not drink.”.	Spanish proverb
I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself.	Spanish proverb
The bell does not go to mass, yet calls every one to it.	Spanish proverb
It is a bad hen that eats at your house and lays at another’s.	Spanish proverb
A woman’s tears and a dog’s limping are not real.	Spanish proverb
It is not in the pilot’s power to prevent the wind from blowing.	Spanish proverb
It is nothing, they are only thrashing my husband.	Spanish proverb
The lion is not so fierce as he is painted.	Spanish proverb
Let there be no lack of food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it.	Spanish proverb
Where there is no want of will, there will be no want of opportunity.	Spanish proverb
There would be no ill word if it were not ill taken.	Spanish proverb
He does not a little who burns his house: he frightens the rats, and warms himself.	Spanish proverb
The fox does not do as much mischief in a year as it pays for in an hour.	Spanish proverb
He cannot find water in the sea.	Spanish proverb
There is no beast so savage but sports with its mate.	Spanish proverb
No hay casa do no haya su calla! calla!.	Spanish proverb
There is no lock, if the pick is of gold.	Spanish proverb
If there were no receiver there would be no thief.	Spanish proverb
There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen.	Spanish proverb
There is no better patch than one off the same cloth.	Spanish proverb
There is no pot so ugly but finds its cover.	Spanish proverb
There is no pleasure but palls, and the more so if it costs nothing.	Spanish proverb
There is no mother like the mother that bore us.	Spanish proverb
There’s no argument like that of the stick.	Spanish proverb
There is no such witness as a good measure of wine.	Spanish proverb
God does not smite with both hands.	Spanish proverb
I don’t want it, I don’t want it, but put it into my hood.	Spanish proverb
It is not the load but the overload that kills.	Spanish proverb
Call me not olive till you see me gathered.	Spanish proverb
Call me not fortunate till you see me buried.	Spanish proverb
It is not the fine, but the coarse and ill-spun that breaks.	Spanish proverb
The mother-in-law does not remember that she was a daughter-in-law.	Spanish proverb
Be not a baker if your head is butter.	Spanish proverb
The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only.	Spanish proverb
You can’t make pancakes without breaking eggs.	Spanish proverb
Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass.	Spanish proverb
All is not lost that is in danger.	Spanish proverb
Let him not complain of being cheated who buys cloth by the pattern.	Spanish proverb
You will not be loved if you care for none but yourself.	Spanish proverb
Trouts are not caught with dry breeches.	Spanish proverb
Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds.	Spanish proverb
All are not soldiers who go to the wars.	Spanish proverb
Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new.	Spanish proverb
Don’t scuffle with the potter, for he makes money by the damage.	Spanish proverb
The loyal man lives no longer than the traitor pleases.	Spanish proverb
The absent were never in the right.	Spanish proverb
Never ask of him who has, but of him you know wishes you well.	Spanish proverb
What’s everybody’s business is nobody’s business.	Spanish proverb
Deeds are love, and not fine phrases.	Spanish proverb
If the eyes don’t see, the heart won’t break.	Spanish proverb
The stew that boils much loses favour.	Spanish proverb
Either the ass will die, or he that goads it.	Spanish proverb
An ounce of state to a pound of gold.	Spanish proverb
The full-fed sheep is frightened at its own tail.	Spanish proverb
Silly sheep, where one goes, all go.	Spanish proverb
If you pay what you owe, what you’re worth you’ll know.	Spanish proverb
Pay what you owe, and be cured of your complaint.	Spanish proverb
The king likes the treachery, but not the traitor.	Spanish proverb
A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling.	Spanish proverb
A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled.	Spanish proverb
A blind man’s stroke, which raises a dust from beneath water.	Spanish proverb
You used to be a baker, though now you wear gloves.	Spanish proverb
Paper and ink and little justice.	Spanish proverb
If you want to beat a dog, say he eat your iron.	Spanish proverb
There is not a pair of ears for every Jew.	Spanish proverb
To-morrow’s remedy will not ward off the evil of today.	Spanish proverb
My sister’s son is a kinsman beyond dispute.	Spanish proverb
A bad labour, and a daughter after all.	Spanish proverb
Peace and patience, and death with penitence.	Spanish proverb
When thieves fall out the thefts come to light.	Spanish proverb
I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye.	Spanish proverb
I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew.	Spanish proverb
A kitchen-dog is never a good rabbit-hunter.	Spanish proverb
A barking dog was never a good biter.	Spanish proverb
A shock dog is starved and nobody believes it.	Spanish proverb
The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves.	Spanish proverb
Weight and measure save a man toil.	Spanish proverb
Peter pinches me, and I like it.	Spanish proverb
The thief thinks that all men are like himself.	Spanish proverb
Lovers think that others have no eyes.	Spanish proverb
The month loses its own, but not the year.	Spanish proverb
Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet.	Spanish proverb
A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives.	Spanish proverb
Poverty is no sin, but it is a branch of roguery.	Spanish proverb
A little gall embitters much honey.	Spanish proverb
Little by little one goes far.	Spanish proverb
A little loss frightens, a great one tames.	Spanish proverb
Give me the ass that carries me in preference to the horse that throws me.	Spanish proverb
Wherever you may be, do as you see done.	Spanish proverb
Where the sea goes let the sands go.	Spanish proverb
Whatever way you take there is a league of bad road.	Spanish proverb
Where the goat leaps, leaps that which sucks her.	Spanish proverb
I left what I knew for what I heard praised, and repented.	Spanish proverb
By the thread we unwind the skein.	Spanish proverb
For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade.	Spanish proverb
By the street of “By-and-by” one arrives at the house of “Never.”.	Spanish proverb
The devil gets into the belfry by the vicar’s skirts.	Spanish proverb
For all one’s early rising, it dawns none the sooner.	Spanish proverb
Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her.	Spanish proverb
Through not spending enough, we spend too much.	Spanish proverb
Do not fret for news, it will grow old and you will know it.	Spanish proverb
Nothing is lost on a journey by stopping to pray or to feed your horse.	Spanish proverb
Every law is broken to become a king.	Spanish proverb
However bright the sun may shine, leave not your cloak at home.	Spanish proverb
In a wood don’t walk behind another.	Spanish proverb
Do not lose honour through fear.	Spanish proverb
However foul it be, never say, Of this water I will not drink.	Spanish proverb
For want of a nail the shoe is lost.	Spanish proverb
Old as is the boat it may cross the ferry once.	Spanish proverb
To cry up wine, and sell vinegar.	Spanish proverb
Let no one take a pawn that eats.	Spanish proverb
Possession and good right, with lance in hand.	Spanish proverb
A pig bought on credit grunts all the year.	Spanish proverb
Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves.	Spanish proverb
Since we have loaves let us not look for cakes.	Spanish proverb
A secret between two is God’s secret, a secret between three is everybody’s.	Spanish proverb
Whoredom and thieving are never long concealed.	Spanish proverb
As is the master, so is his dog.	Spanish proverb
As are the times, so are the manners.	Spanish proverb
As is the king, so are his people.	Spanish proverb
When a good offer comes for your daughter, don’t wait till her father returns from market.	Spanish proverb
When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike.	Spanish proverb
When you eat new bread, don’t drink water.	Spanish proverb
When God gives light he gives it for all.	Spanish proverb
When God will not the saint cannot.	Spanish proverb
When God pleases it rains with every wind.	Spanish proverb
When God pleases, it rains in fair weather.	Spanish proverb
When the spleen increases, the body diminishes.	Spanish proverb
When the corsair promises masses and candles, it goes ill with the galley.	Spanish proverb
When the devil says his prayers he wants to cheat you.	Spanish proverb
When the Spaniard sings, he is either mad or has no money.	Spanish proverb
When the prior plays cards, what will the monks do?.	Spanish proverb
When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike.	Spanish proverb
When the fool has made up his mind the market is over.	Spanish proverb
When the river makes no noise, it is either dried up or much swollen.	Spanish proverb
When an old man cannot drink, prepare his grave.	Spanish proverb
Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man.	Spanish proverb
When a peasant gets rich, he knows neither relations nor friends.	Spanish proverb
When the summer is winter, and the winter summer, it is a sorry year.	Spanish proverb
When you go to a strange house knock at the door.	Spanish proverb
When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy.	Spanish proverb
When the child cuts its teeth, death is on the watch.	Spanish proverb
When ill-luck sleeps, let no one wake her.	Spanish proverb
When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine.	Spanish proverb
When it rains in February, it will be temperate all the year.	Spanish proverb
When the fields yield not, the saints have not.	Spanish proverb
When we ask a favour, we say, Madam; when we obtain it, what we please.	Spanish proverb
When poor, liberal; when rich, stingy.	Spanish proverb
When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger.	Spanish proverb
When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter.	Spanish proverb
When every one says you are an ass, bray.	Spanish proverb
When one door shuts, a hundred open.	Spanish proverb
When one wolf eats another, there is nothing to eat in the wood.	Spanish proverb
Two cannot fall out if one does not choose.	Spanish proverb
When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it.	Spanish proverb
When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison.	Spanish proverb
Tell not all you know, nor judge of all you see, if you would live in peace.	Spanish proverb
Four things put a man beside himself—women, tobacco, cards, and wine.	Spanish proverb
To lose one eye that you may deprive another of two.	Spanish proverb
You have broken my head and now you bring plaister.	Spanish proverb
I broke my leg, perhaps for my good.	Spanish proverb
Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow.	Spanish proverb
He who does not look before lags behind.	Spanish proverb
He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them.	Spanish proverb
He who spits above himself will have it fall on his face.	Spanish proverb
He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age.	Spanish proverb
He who threatens to strike, and does not, is afraid.	Spanish proverb
He who lives in hopes, breakfasts ill and sups worse.	Spanish proverb
He who serves many masters must neglect some of them.	Spanish proverb
He who takes the wrong road must make his journey twice over.	Spanish proverb
He who makes light of his enemy dies by his hand.	Spanish proverb
He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself.	Spanish proverb
He who wants to kill his dog has only to say he is mad.	Spanish proverb
He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate.	Spanish proverb
He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent.	Spanish proverb
He who loves well is slow to forget.	Spanish proverb
He who dances well goes from wedding to wedding.	Spanish proverb
He who loves Peter won’t harm his dog.	Spanish proverb
He who loves well, obeys well.	Spanish proverb
He who does good to you either dies or goes away.	Spanish proverb
He who has lost his oxen is always hearing bells.	Spanish proverb
He who eats the meat let him pick the bone.	Spanish proverb
He who eats and puts by, has sufficient for two meals.	Spanish proverb
A penny spared is a penny saved.	Spanish proverb
He who buys a horse buys care.	Spanish proverb
He who buys and sells does not feel what he spends.	Spanish proverb
He who made fun of the old man, laughed at first and cried afterwards.	Spanish proverb
He who goes with wolves learns to howl.	Spanish proverb
Who arrays himself in other men’s garments is stripped on the highway.	Spanish proverb
He who has to deal with a blockhead has need of much brains.	Spanish proverb
Who gives what he has before he is dead, take a mallet and knock that fool on the head.	Spanish proverb
He who dresses in others’ clothes will be undressed on the highway.	Spanish proverb
He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow.	Spanish proverb
Whoever falls sick of folly, is long in getting cured.	Spanish proverb
He who finds fault wants to buy.	Spanish proverb
He who divides gets the worst share.	Spanish proverb
He who is everybody’s friend is either very poor or very rich.	Spanish proverb
He who says what he likes, hears what he don’t like.	Spanish proverb
He who tells his own secret will hardly keep another’s.	Spanish proverb
He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed.	Spanish proverb
He who pours water hastily into a bottle spills more than goes in.	Spanish proverb
He who measures oil greases his hands.	Spanish proverb
He who works on the highway will have many advisers.	Spanish proverb
He who wants to be rich in a year comes to the gallows in half a year.	Spanish proverb
No wonder if he breaks his head who stumbles twice over one stone.	Spanish proverb
Listeners hear no good of themselves.	Spanish proverb
He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray.	Spanish proverb
He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace.	Spanish proverb
Who is your enemy? A man of your own trade.	Spanish proverb
Two of a trade can never agree.	Spanish proverb
She who loves an ugly man thinks him handsome.	Spanish proverb
He who pledges or promises runs in debt.	Spanish proverb
He who keeps his own secret avoids much mischief.	Spanish proverb
He who does what he likes, does not what he ought.	Spanish proverb
He who gives to the public, gives to no one.	Spanish proverb
He that makes one basket can make a hundred.	Spanish proverb
He who has servants has unavoidable enemies.	Spanish proverb
Who is to carry the cat to the water?.	Spanish proverb
He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living.	Spanish proverb
He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him.	Spanish proverb
He who would cheat the fox must rise early.	Spanish proverb
Who is always prying into other men’s affairs, leads a dangerous life.	Spanish proverb
Let him play the instrument who knows how.	Spanish proverb
He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it.	Spanish proverb
He who goes far from home to marry, goes either to deceive or be deceived.	Spanish proverb
He who has a tongue goes to Rome.	Spanish proverb
He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells.	Spanish proverb
The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day.	Spanish proverb
As you make your bed so you must lie in it.	Spanish proverb
He who begins badly, ends badly.	Spanish proverb
He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck.	Spanish proverb
He who marries ill, is long in becoming widowed.	Spanish proverb
The more haste the less speed.	Spanish proverb
The more one has the more one wants.	Spanish proverb
He who asks the fewest favours is the best received.	Spanish proverb
He who grasps at much holds fast little.	Spanish proverb
He who sleeps much, learns little.	Spanish proverb
He who talks much is sometimes right.	Spanish proverb
He who does not repair his gutter has a whole house to repair.	Spanish proverb
He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife.	Spanish proverb
He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council.	Spanish proverb
He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth.	Spanish proverb
When a man is not used to breeches the seams gall him.	Spanish proverb
He who does no more than another is no better than another.	Spanish proverb
He that does not lie, does not come of good blood.	Spanish proverb
He who does not show himself, is overlooked.	Spanish proverb
Let him who does not know you buy you.	Spanish proverb
He who has but one coat cannot lend it.	Spanish proverb
He who does not mix with the crowd knows nothing.	Spanish proverb
He to whom God gives no sons, the devil gives nephews.	Spanish proverb
He who does not speak, God does not hear.	Spanish proverb
He who looks demurely trust not with your money.	Spanish proverb
He goes safely to trial whose father is a judge.	Spanish proverb
He who wants to catch fish must not mind a wetting.	Spanish proverb
He who catches one fish is a fisherman.	Spanish proverb
He who knows little soon tells it.	Spanish proverb
Who lends recovers not; or if he recovers, recovers not all; or if all, not such; or if such, a mortal enemy.	Spanish proverb
He who comes first grinds first.	Spanish proverb
He who promises incurs a debt.	Spanish proverb
He that will not when he can, cannot when he will.	Spanish proverb
He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king’s service.	Spanish proverb
He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer.	Spanish proverb
He that would have a beautiful wife should choose her on a Saturday.	Spanish proverb
He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot.	Spanish proverb
He that would be healthy, must eat temperately, and sup early.	Spanish proverb
He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin.	Spanish proverb
He who hangs out a branch wants to sell his wine.	Spanish proverb
He that trusts a faithless friend, has a good witness against him.	Spanish proverb
He who sows brambles must not go barefoot.	Spanish proverb
He who always tells me a lie never cheats me.	Spanish proverb
He who helps everybody, helps nobody.	Spanish proverb
He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone.	Spanish proverb
He who greases his cart-wheels helps his oxen.	Spanish proverb
That which covers thee discovers thee.	Spanish proverb
To him who gives the capon you may spare a leg and wing.	Spanish proverb
He that is more civil than usual, either wants to cozen you or has need of you.	Spanish proverb
Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance.	Spanish proverb
He who has a trade may travel through the world.	Spanish proverb
Let him that has a mouth not say to another, Blow.	Spanish proverb
He who has enemies, let him not sleep.	Spanish proverb
He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin.	Spanish proverb
He who has got four and spends five, has no occasion for a purse.	Spanish proverb
He that has an hour’s start will not be hanged.	Spanish proverb
He who denies everything confesses everything.	Spanish proverb
He who rides behind another does not saddle when he will.	Spanish proverb
He who has a son grown up should not call another a thief.	Spanish proverb
He who steals once is never trusty.	Spanish proverb
God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours.	Spanish proverb
Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool.	Spanish proverb
If you would make a thief honest, trust him.	Spanish proverb
If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread.	Spanish proverb
They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman.	Spanish proverb
The fox that tarries long is on the watch for prey.	Spanish proverb
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat.	Spanish proverb
To stop the hole after the mischief is done.	Spanish proverb
Curses on accounts with relations.	Spanish proverb
Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak.	Spanish proverb
Wounds pain most when grown cool.	Spanish proverb
The glass-dealer’s horses fell out, and he looked on to see which kicked hardest.	Spanish proverb
The gossips fall out and tell each other truths.	Spanish proverb
To pray to the saint until the danger is past.	Spanish proverb
A great man’s entreaty is a command.	Spanish proverb
Entreaties to get him to sing, and entreaties to leave off.	Spanish proverb
Entreaty and right do the deed.	Spanish proverb
Know, cabbages, that there is spinach in the stew.	Spanish proverb
He knows it as well as his Lord’s Prayer.	Spanish proverb
Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white.	Spanish proverb
To draw the foot out of the mire.	Spanish proverb
Pluck it from among the thistles, and we will take it off your hands.	Spanish proverb
To take one foot out of the mire and put the other into it.	Spanish proverb
To discover truth by telling a falsehood.	Spanish proverb
When he was born, Solomon passed by his door, and would not go in.	Spanish proverb
To get out of one muck into another.	Spanish proverb
To jump out of the frying-pan and fall into the fire.	Spanish proverb
Health and cheerfulness make beauty; finery and cosmetics cost money and lie.	Spanish proverb
Salt spilt is never all gathered.	Spanish proverb
Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue.	Spanish proverb
Wounds heal, but not ill words.	Spanish proverb
Bleed him and purge him; if he dies, bury him.	Spanish proverb
Be my enemy and go to my mill.	Spanish proverb
Let it be a husband, though it be but a log.	Spanish proverb
A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass.	Spanish proverb
Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom.	Spanish proverb
To be like a tailor’s pattern-book.	Spanish proverb
To be like the esquire of Guadalaxara, who knew nothing in the morning of what he said at night.	Spanish proverb
To be like a leek, have a grey head and the rest green.	Spanish proverb
To be like a bunch of nettles.	Spanish proverb
To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread.	Spanish proverb
To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales.	Spanish proverb
If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so.	Spanish proverb
Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher.	Spanish proverb
If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue.	Spanish proverb
If the sky falls, hold up your hands.	Spanish proverb
If the sky falls there will be pots broken.	Spanish proverb
If the child cries let the mother hush it, and if it will not be hushed let it cry.	Spanish proverb
Sow corn in clay, and plant vines in sand.	Spanish proverb
Seat yourself in your place and you will not be made to quit it.	Spanish proverb
If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark.	Spanish proverb
Seven brothers in a council make wrong right.	Spanish proverb
If folly were a pain, there would be groaning in every house.	Spanish proverb
If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher.	Spanish proverb
If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it at breakfast.	Spanish proverb
If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain.	Spanish proverb
If you would acquire fame, let not the sun shine on you in bed.	Spanish proverb
If you want to thrash your wife, ask her for a drink of water in the sun.	Spanish proverb
If you want to be dead, wash your head and go to bed.	Spanish proverb
If you wish to be well served, serve yourself.	Spanish proverb
If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one.	Spanish proverb
Serve a lord and you’ll know what is grief.	Spanish proverb
If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure.	Spanish proverb
If the rings are lost, here are the fingers still.	Spanish proverb
If I am a fool, put your finger in my mouth.	Spanish proverb
If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy.	Spanish proverb
If one, two, three say you are an ass, put on a tail.	Spanish proverb
There is no disputing about taste.	Spanish proverb
Under the sackcloth there is something hid.	Spanish proverb
Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass.	Spanish proverb
Blow, smith, and you’ll get money.	Spanish proverb
One cannot blow and swallow at the same time.	Spanish proverb
Under a gold sheath a leaden knife.	Spanish proverb
The fault is as great as he that commits it.	Spanish proverb
The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth.	Spanish proverb
Peter is so godly that God does not improve his condition.	Spanish proverb
The devil is so fond of his son that he put out his eye.	Spanish proverb
To have the foot in two shoes.	Spanish proverb
To have one’s brains in one’s heels.	Spanish proverb
To have the belly up to one’s mouth.	Spanish proverb
To throw the stone and conceal the hand.	Spanish proverb
All things of this world are nothing, unless they have reference to the next.	Spanish proverb
It will all come out in the soapsuds.	Spanish proverb
They are all honest men, but my cloak is not to be found.	Spanish proverb
A fool, unless he know Latin, is never a great fool.	Spanish proverb
To have it written on his forehead.	Spanish proverb
To swallow a camel, and strain at a gnat.	Spanish proverb
A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend.	Spanish proverb
The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished.	Spanish proverb
After one vice a greater follows.	Spanish proverb
Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge.	Spanish proverb
They may whip me in the market-place, so it be not known at home.	Spanish proverb
Three things kill a man: a scorching sun, suppers, and cares.	Spanish proverb
Three daughters and their mother, four devils for the father.	Spanish proverb
A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting.	Spanish proverb
The bowels support the heart, and not the heart the bowels.	Spanish proverb
It goes ill in the house where the hen sings and the cock is silent.	Spanish proverb
One knavery is met by another.	Spanish proverb
The horse thinks one thing, and his rider another.	Spanish proverb
One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe.	Spanish proverb
One grievance borne, another follows.	Spanish proverb
One ass among many monkeys is grinned at by all.	Spanish proverb
A hair casts its shadow on the ground.	Spanish proverb
One wolf does not bite another.	Spanish proverb
One starts the game and another bags it.	Spanish proverb
One eye on the frying-pan and the other on the cat.	Spanish proverb
Some have the fame, and others card the wool.	Spanish proverb
A bespattered hog tries to bespatter another.	Spanish proverb
The more you court a clown the statelier he grows.	Spanish proverb
An oak is not felled at one blow.	Spanish proverb
The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready.	Spanish proverb
Shoemakers go to mass and pray that sheep may die.	Spanish proverb
When the cat’s away the rats will play.	Spanish proverb
A crazy vessel never falls from the hand.	Spanish proverb
Go in God’s name, for he takes a loaf of mine.	Spanish proverb
Sell publicly and buy privately.	Spanish proverb
To sell honey to the beekeeper.	Spanish proverb
God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn.	Spanish proverb
To see the sky through a funnel.	Spanish proverb
See, hear, and hold your tongue.	Spanish proverb
Luck comes to those who look after it.	Spanish proverb
Wind and good luck are seldom lasting.	Spanish proverb
Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich.	Spanish proverb
A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered.	Spanish proverb
The voice of the people is the voice of God.	Spanish proverb
To lather an ass’s head is only wasting soap.	Spanish proverb
Ill weeds are not hurt by the frost.	Spanish proverb
I am like you and you like me, the devil united us.	Spanish proverb
I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?.	Spanish proverb
I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?.	Spanish proverb
I a lazy lout, you a lazy lout, marry me, Antonia.	Spanish proverb
I know what I know, but will say nothing about it.	Spanish proverb
Shoemaker, stick to your last.	Spanish proverb
When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out.	Spanish proverb
A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean.	Portuguese proverb
What water gives, water takes away.	Portuguese proverb
Conceal not your secret from your friend, or you deserve to lose him.	Portuguese proverb
To a hasty question a leisurely answer.	Portuguese proverb
Abaixaõ-se as cadeiras, levantaõ-se as tripeças.	Portuguese proverb
For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed.	Portuguese proverb
The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces.	Portuguese proverb
The belly does not accept bail.	Portuguese proverb
You need not find a shelter for an old ox.	Portuguese proverb
The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations.	Portuguese proverb
Open your purse, and I will open my mouth.	Portuguese proverb
A cabra de minha visinha, mais leite dá que a minha.	Portuguese proverb
Go to your rich friend’s house when invited; to your poor friend’s without invitation.	Portuguese proverb
Fit the foot to the shoe, not the shoe to the foot.	Portuguese proverb
The wine-skin has its reasons for smelling of pitch.	Portuguese proverb
The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too.	Portuguese proverb
The blind man has picked up a coin.	Portuguese proverb
Keep good company and you shall be of the number.	Portuguese proverb
The headache is mine and the cows are ours.	Portuguese proverb
A friend’s fault should be known but not abhorred.	Portuguese proverb
Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you.	Portuguese proverb
Soft water constantly striking the hard stone, wears it at last.	Portuguese proverb
Brackish water is sweet in a drought.	Portuguese proverb
We have not saddled and yet we are riding.	Portuguese proverb
Though the heron flies high the falcon kills it.	Portuguese proverb
Though we are negroes, we are men, and have souls.	Portuguese proverb
Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip.	Portuguese proverb
The tailor ill-dressed, the shoemaker ill-shod.	Portuguese proverb
To love and be wise is incompatible.	Portuguese proverb
The treason approved, the traitor abhorred.	Portuguese proverb
The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread.	Portuguese proverb
He threatens many who affronts one.	Portuguese proverb
Everybody’s friend or nobody’s friend, is all one.	Portuguese proverb
Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound.	Portuguese proverb
Friends and mules fail us at hard passes.	Portuguese proverb
In default of bread, meal cakes are good.	Portuguese proverb
A woman and a hen are soon lost through gadding.	Portuguese proverb
Your wife and sheep early at home.	Portuguese proverb
Women and glass are always in danger.	Portuguese proverb
A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor.	Portuguese proverb
A muita conversaçaõ he causa de menos preço.	Portuguese proverb
By going gains the mill, and not by standing still.	Portuguese proverb
Let me go warm and folk may laugh.	Portuguese proverb
Rather lose the wool than the sheep.	Portuguese proverb
Rather go rob with good men than pray with bad.	Portuguese proverb
Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass.	Portuguese proverb
Before you marry reflect, for it is a knot you cannot untie.	Portuguese proverb
Give a grateful man more than he asks.	Portuguese proverb
To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand.	Portuguese proverb
Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy.	Portuguese proverb
The envious man’s face grows lean and his eye swells.	Portuguese proverb
Where shall the ox go bid he must labour, since he knows how?.	Portuguese proverb
He that does ill never wants for excuses.	Portuguese proverb
It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty.	Portuguese proverb
A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled.	Portuguese proverb
The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.	Portuguese proverb
He is your friend who gets you out of a scrape.	Portuguese proverb
Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom.	Portuguese proverb
I hate fetters though they be of gold.	Portuguese proverb
I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood.	Portuguese proverb
I renounce the friend who eats what is mine with me, and what is his own by himself.	Portuguese proverb
Lovers’ quarrels are love redoubled.	Portuguese proverb
Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent.	Portuguese proverb
A contented ass enjoys a long life.	Portuguese proverb
The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves.	Portuguese proverb
A dull ass near home trots without the stick.	Portuguese proverb
The ass dead, the corn at his tail.	Portuguese proverb
The ass that is hungry eats thistles.	Portuguese proverb
Of soup and love, the first is the best.	Portuguese proverb
Tell your friend a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth.	Portuguese proverb
Win a bet of your friend, and drink it on the spot.	Portuguese proverb
Right or wrong, our house up to the roof.	Portuguese proverb
Truth, and oil come to the surface.	Portuguese proverb
A rich widow weeps with one eye and laughs with the other.	Portuguese proverb
Of oil, wine, and friends, the oldest.	Portuguese proverb
A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring.	Portuguese proverb
A beard lathered is half shaved.	Portuguese proverb
The belly warm, the foot at rest.	Portuguese proverb
I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag.	Portuguese proverb
Martha sings well when she has had her fill.	Portuguese proverb
The Frenchman sings well, when his throat is moistened.	Portuguese proverb
Gain has a pleasant odour, come whence it will.	Portuguese proverb
I am on good terms with the friend who eats his bread with me.	Portuguese proverb
The thief becomes the gallows well.	Portuguese proverb
A good thing is known when it is lost.	Portuguese proverb
The ass well knows in whose house he brays.	Portuguese proverb
The cat well knows whose beard she licks.	Portuguese proverb
No woman is ugly if she is well dressed.	Portuguese proverb
The gentle calf sucks all the cows.	Portuguese proverb
Good is the delay which makes sure.	Portuguese proverb
Good words and bad acts deceive both wise and simple.	Portuguese proverb
Mouth of honey, heart of gall.	Portuguese proverb
A morsel eaten gains no friend.	Portuguese proverb
A shut mouth keeps me out of strife.	Portuguese proverb
The mouth that says “Yes,” can say “No.”.	Portuguese proverb
The dog wags his tail for your bread, not for you.	Portuguese proverb
An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late.	Portuguese proverb
The cat is a good friend, only she scratches.	Portuguese proverb
Bom coraçaõ quebranta má ventura.	Portuguese proverb
It is well to know how to be silent till it is time to speak.	Portuguese proverb
Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentleman.	Portuguese proverb
The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place.	Portuguese proverb
Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail.	Portuguese proverb
The lame goat does not take a siesta.	Portuguese proverb
Every pedlar praises his needles.	Portuguese proverb
Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack.	Portuguese proverb
Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck.	Portuguese proverb
Every one is a king in his own house.	Portuguese proverb
Every one stretches his leg according to his coverlet.	Portuguese proverb
Every one speaks of the feast as he finds it.	Portuguese proverb
Let every one be content with what God has given him.	Portuguese proverb
Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs.	Portuguese proverb
Let every man look to the bread upon which he must depend.	Portuguese proverb
Every one is wise for his own profit.	Portuguese proverb
Every one knows where his own shoe pinches him.	Portuguese proverb
Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak.	Portuguese proverb
Follow the road and you will reach an inn.	Portuguese proverb
The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves its handle or its spout there.	Portuguese proverb
A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat.	Portuguese proverb
The dog that barks much is never good for hunting.	Portuguese proverb
Beware of the dog that does not bark.	Portuguese proverb
The dog that barks much, bites little.	Portuguese proverb
Marry, marry, and what about the housekeeping.	Portuguese proverb
Chastise the good man, he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse.	Portuguese proverb
A ragged colt may make a handsome horse.	Portuguese proverb
A fast horse does not want the spur.	Portuguese proverb
Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good.	Portuguese proverb
He who makes one basket can make a hundred.	Portuguese proverb
Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender.	Portuguese proverb
Eat with him, and beware of him.	Portuguese proverb
How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones.	Portuguese proverb
As they pipe to me, I will dance.	Portuguese proverb
Rosary in hand, the devil at heart.	Portuguese proverb
A resolute heart endures no counsel.	Portuguese proverb
Faintheart is always in danger.	Portuguese proverb
An innocent heart suspects no guile.	Portuguese proverb
A well-formed figure needs no cloak.	Portuguese proverb
Crows do not peck out crows’ eyes.	Portuguese proverb
The mare’s kicks are caresses to the colt.	Portuguese proverb
Thinking of where you are going, you forget whence you came.	Portuguese proverb
A bad knife cuts one’s finger instead of the stick.	Portuguese proverb
God gives clothes according to the cold.	Portuguese proverb
God has given nuts to one who has no teeth.	Portuguese proverb
Show me a poor man, I will show you a flatterer.	Portuguese proverb
My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle.	Portuguese proverb
To give is honour, to beg is dishonour.	Portuguese proverb
Under fair words beware of fraud.	Portuguese proverb
Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker.	Portuguese proverb
Under the sackcloth there is something else.	Portuguese proverb
The rat does not leave the cat’s house with a bellyful.	Portuguese proverb
It is the nature of the greyhound to carry a long tail.	Portuguese proverb
A finger’s length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage.	Portuguese proverb
From great rivers come great fish.	Portuguese proverb
Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt.	Portuguese proverb
Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others.	Portuguese proverb
He is an old saint, and may leave it in the hands of God.	Portuguese proverb
Do not rear a bird of a bad breed.	Portuguese proverb
God helps those that help themselves.	Portuguese proverb
God permits, but not for ever.	Portuguese proverb
God heals, and the doctor gets the money.	Portuguese proverb
God grant me to dispute with those who understand me.	Portuguese proverb
From a closed door the devil turns away.	Portuguese proverb
You can’t make a good shaft of a pig’s tail.	Portuguese proverb
Of two cowards, the one who attacks conquers the other.	Portuguese proverb
Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten.	Portuguese proverb
Money wins the battle, not the long arm.	Portuguese proverb
Money is the measure of all things.	Portuguese proverb
Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain.	Portuguese proverb
Tell me with whom thou goest, and I’ll tell thee what thou doest.	Portuguese proverb
Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside.	Portuguese proverb
Of the good man a good pledge, and of the bad neither pledge nor surety.	Portuguese proverb
War is sweet to him who does not go to it.	Portuguese proverb
You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man.	Portuguese proverb
Where there’s no fire there’s no smoke.	Portuguese proverb
Where you were a page, be not an esquire.	Portuguese proverb
Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom.	Portuguese proverb
From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest.	Portuguese proverb
Birds of prey do not flock together.	Portuguese proverb
Hard upon hard does not make a good wall.	Portuguese proverb
The tired mare goes willingly to grass.	Portuguese proverb
He has a head, and so has a pin.	Portuguese proverb
Never mention a rope in the house of a thief.	Portuguese proverb
You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy.	Portuguese proverb
While there is life there is hope.	Portuguese proverb
Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house.	Portuguese proverb
Cheat me in price, and not in the goods.	Portuguese proverb
To lather an ass’s head is a waste of soap.	Portuguese proverb
Ill weeds are not hurt by frost.	Portuguese proverb
Talk of the wolf and behold his skin.	Portuguese proverb
Speak little and well, they will think you somebody.	Portuguese proverb
A beggar’s wallet is never full.	Portuguese proverb
Make your son your heir and not your steward.	Portuguese proverb
Make the night night, and the day day, and you will live pleasantly.	Portuguese proverb
An estate inherited is the less valued.	Portuguese proverb
To reckon without one’s hostess.	Portuguese proverb
To make of a flea a knight cap-a-pie.	Portuguese proverb
Feign death and the bull will leave you.	Portuguese proverb
Feita a lei, cuidada a malicia.	Portuguese proverb
Iron that is not used soon rusts.	Portuguese proverb
Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy.	Portuguese proverb
To get out of the smoke and fall into the fire.	Portuguese proverb
To get out of the mire and fall into the river.	Portuguese proverb
I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes.	Portuguese proverb
To steal a sheep and give away the trotters for God’s sake.	Portuguese proverb
The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs.	Portuguese proverb
Graõ a graõ enche a gallinha o papo.	Portuguese proverb
Alas for the son whose father went to heaven.	Portuguese proverb
He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider.	Portuguese proverb
Beware of a man that does not talk, and of a dog that does not bark.	Portuguese proverb
In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains.	Portuguese proverb
There are ills that happen for good.	Portuguese proverb
The guests will go away, and we will eat the pasty.	Portuguese proverb
An angry man heeds no counsel.	Portuguese proverb
He who is well prepared has half won the battle.	Portuguese proverb
A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long.	Portuguese proverb
An honest man’s word is as good as the king’s.	Portuguese proverb
A man of straw is better than a woman of gold.	Portuguese proverb
The man of your own trade is your enemy.	Portuguese proverb
Fools sometimes give wise men counsel.	Portuguese proverb
A poor man is hungry after eating.	Portuguese proverb
Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man that he may not dishonour you.	Portuguese proverb
Honour and profit will not keep in one sack.	Portuguese proverb
One misfortune brings on another.	Portuguese proverb
One wrong submitted to, another follows.	Portuguese proverb
One grain does not fill the granary, but it helps its companion.	Portuguese proverb
Let the dog bark at me, so he don’t bite me.	Portuguese proverb
The tongue goes to the aching tooth.	Portuguese proverb
To start the hare for another’s profit.	Portuguese proverb
Rise early, and you will observe; labour, and you will have.	Portuguese proverb
A bustling mother makes a slothful daughter.	Portuguese proverb
Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled.	Portuguese proverb
What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping.	Portuguese proverb
Money soothes more than the words of a cavalier.	Portuguese proverb
A good word quenches more than a cauldron of water.	Portuguese proverb
An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation.	Portuguese proverb
He that will, does more than he that can.	Portuguese proverb
Better an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me.	Portuguese proverb
I want more for my teeth than for my relations.	Portuguese proverb
Better go round than be drowned.	Portuguese proverb
Favour oft avails more than justice or reason.	Portuguese proverb
Better a distant good than a near evil.	Portuguese proverb
Good management is better than good income.	Portuguese proverb
Better be silent than speak ill.	Portuguese proverb
Better have friends in the market-place than money in your coffer.	Portuguese proverb
Better keep, than have to beg.	Portuguese proverb
One bird in the hand is worth two flying.	Portuguese proverb
Better is one “Take this,” than two “I-will-give-you.”.	Portuguese proverb
Better deserve honour and not have it, than have it and not deserve it.	Portuguese proverb
Better have a had ass than be your own ass.	Portuguese proverb
Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men.	Portuguese proverb
Another’s misfortune does not cure my pain.	Portuguese proverb
Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread.	Portuguese proverb
It fares ill with the house when the distaff commands the sword.	Portuguese proverb
Ill fares the young bird in the urchin’s hand.	Portuguese proverb
Give orders, and do no more, and nothing will be done.	Portuguese proverb
Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety.	Portuguese proverb
The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail.	Portuguese proverb
Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him.	Portuguese proverb
It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master.	Portuguese proverb
To kill two birds with one stone.	Portuguese proverb
Melhor he a gallinha da minha visinha, que a minha.	Portuguese proverb
Better repair the gutter than the whole house.	Portuguese proverb
Better have to give than have to beg.	Portuguese proverb
Better be wrong with the many than right with the few.	Portuguese proverb
Better a sparrow in the hand than two flying.	Portuguese proverb
Better anticipate than be anticipated.	Portuguese proverb
Better a red face than a black heart.	Portuguese proverb
Better be one-eyed than quite blind.	Portuguese proverb
A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch.	Portuguese proverb
Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another.	Portuguese proverb
My money, your money, let us go to the tavern.	Portuguese proverb
Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey!.	Portuguese proverb
Counterfeit coin passes current at night.	Portuguese proverb
A gossiping woman talks of everybody, and everybody of her.	Portuguese proverb
Woman, wind, and luck soon change.	Portuguese proverb
To change one’s habits smacks of death.	Portuguese proverb
Change yourself, and fortune will change with you.	Portuguese proverb
The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep.	Portuguese proverb
There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves.	Portuguese proverb
Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill.	Portuguese proverb
To promise much means giving little.	Portuguese proverb
Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off.	Portuguese proverb
The fisherman fishes in troubled water.	Portuguese proverb
An open box tempts an honest man.	Portuguese proverb
On the fool’s beard all learn to shave.	Portuguese proverb
Supper is soon served up in a plentiful house.	Portuguese proverb
He doubts nothing who knows nothing.	Portuguese proverb
He has nothing who is not content with what he has.	Portuguese proverb
Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it.	Portuguese proverb
Don’t leave the high road for a short cut.	Portuguese proverb
Let not the tongue utter what the head may have to pay for.	Portuguese proverb
Never say, of this water I will not drink, of this bread I will not eat.	Portuguese proverb
Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you’ll have peace to your end.	Portuguese proverb
There is no day without its night.	Portuguese proverb
There’s no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride.	Portuguese proverb
No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken.	Portuguese proverb
There is no pleasure that does not pall, the more so if it costs nothing.	Portuguese proverb
It is nothing, they are only killing my husband.	Portuguese proverb
Honey is not for the ass’s mouth.	Portuguese proverb
No one is poor but he who thinks himself so.	Portuguese proverb
Beware of a door that has many keys.	Portuguese proverb
He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me.	Portuguese proverb
Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun.	Portuguese proverb
Don’t be a baker if your head is made of butter.	Portuguese proverb
The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law.	Portuguese proverb
There’s no living without friends.	Portuguese proverb
There’s no catching trouts with dry breeches.	Portuguese proverb
Don’t make yourself poor to one who won’t make you rich.	Portuguese proverb
He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough.	Portuguese proverb
I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table.	Portuguese proverb
More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there.	Portuguese proverb
The one-eyed is a king in the land of the blind.	Portuguese proverb
He is a fool who thinks that others do not think.	Portuguese proverb
Neither a dumb barber nor a deaf singer.	Portuguese proverb
Go not with every ailment to the doctor, nor with every plaint to the lawyer.	Portuguese proverb
Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher.	Portuguese proverb
Trust not tow with firebrands, nor a woman with men.	Portuguese proverb
It dawns none the sooner for all one’s early rising.	Portuguese proverb
Don’t pull hard enough to break the rope.	Portuguese proverb
Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away.	Portuguese proverb
Not all that is true is to be spoken.	Portuguese proverb
No one is a good judge in his own cause.	Portuguese proverb
No one is content with his lot.	Portuguese proverb
Meddle not in what you don’t understand.	Portuguese proverb
I see by my daughter’s face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law.	Portuguese proverb
Friends are known in adversity.	Portuguese proverb
Good fruit never comes from a bad tree.	Portuguese proverb
There is never wanting a dog to bark at you.	Portuguese proverb
He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause.	Portuguese proverb
One wolf does not kill another.	Portuguese proverb
Hedgehogs are not to be killed with the fist.	Portuguese proverb
He should not complain of being cheated who buys the cloth by the sample.	Portuguese proverb
A friend is to be taken with his faults.	Portuguese proverb
Good news is rumoured, bad news flies.	Portuguese proverb
The savage ox grows tame on strange ground.	Portuguese proverb
What’s everybody’s work is nobody’s work.	Portuguese proverb
Deeds are love, and not sweet words.	Portuguese proverb
Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear.	Portuguese proverb
Another man’s trade costs money.	Portuguese proverb
A seat in the council is honour without profit.	Portuguese proverb
The ass’s son brays one hour daily.	Portuguese proverb
The poor man eats at double cost.	Portuguese proverb
The thief thinks that all are like himself.	Portuguese proverb
The thief proceeds from a needle to gold, and from gold to the gallows.	Portuguese proverb
You will not see many with green eyes.	Portuguese proverb
The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclination.	Portuguese proverb
Wipe your sore eye with your elbow.	Portuguese proverb
The malady that is most incurable is folly.	Portuguese proverb
Rather a husband with one eye than with one son.	Portuguese proverb
The horse’s best allowance is his master’s eye.	Portuguese proverb
A servant and a cock must be kept but one year.	Portuguese proverb
The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one.	Portuguese proverb
The hen’s eyes turn to where she has her eggs.	Portuguese proverb
Where the cock is the hen does not crow.	Portuguese proverb
Where there is no fire, no smoke rises.	Portuguese proverb
Where there’s no might there’s no right.	Portuguese proverb
Where shall the ox go, and not have to plough?.	Portuguese proverb
Where there is no honour there is no dishonour.	Portuguese proverb
Where the wolf picks up one sheep he looks for another.	Portuguese proverb
The fool passes for wise if he is silent.	Portuguese proverb
The worst pig eats the best acorn.	Portuguese proverb
O perro do hortelão naõ come as versas, nem a outrem as deixa comer.	Portuguese proverb
A little makes a debtor and much an enemy.	Portuguese proverb
What was hard to bear is sweet to remember.	Portuguese proverb
What can’t be cured must be endured.	Portuguese proverb
The king of the bees has no sting.	Portuguese proverb
The son-in-law’s sack is never full.	Portuguese proverb
The fingers of the same hand are not alike.	Portuguese proverb
The blunders of physicians are covered by the earth.	Portuguese proverb
The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge.	Portuguese proverb
The dead open the eyes of the living.	Portuguese proverb
The swindler readily cheats the covetous man.	Portuguese proverb
The full-fed sheep is frightened at her own tail.	Portuguese proverb
The righteous pays for the sinner.	Portuguese proverb
Pay what you owe, you will get well of your malady.	Portuguese proverb
The pot that boils too much loses its flavour.	Portuguese proverb
The bread eaten, the company departs.	Portuguese proverb
Peace with a cudgel in hand is war.	Portuguese proverb
A fault confessed is half forgiven.	Portuguese proverb
When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light.	Portuguese proverb
When bulls fight, woe to the frogs.	Portuguese proverb
The old saints are forgotten in the new.	Portuguese proverb
Little chips kindle the fire, and big logs sustain it.	Portuguese proverb
A small hatchet fells a great oak.	Portuguese proverb
Money is not gained by losing time.	Portuguese proverb
A barking dog was never a good hunter.	Portuguese proverb
Feet accustomed to go cannot be still.	Portuguese proverb
Poverty never sped well in love.	Portuguese proverb
Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise.	Portuguese proverb
For lack of men they made my father a justice.	Portuguese proverb
A little injury dismays, and a great one stills.	Portuguese proverb
A little gall spoils much honey.	Portuguese proverb
Before you marry consider what you do.	Portuguese proverb
Promising is not giving, but serves to content fools.	Portuguese proverb
All the wool is hair, more or less.	Portuguese proverb
Qual o Rei, tal a lei; qual a lei, tal a grei.	Portuguese proverb
He who knows little soon blabs it.	Portuguese proverb
Who will not when he can, can’t when he will.	Portuguese proverb
He who would catch fish must not mind wetting himself.	Portuguese proverb
He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand.	Portuguese proverb
He that would be old long must begin betimes.	Portuguese proverb
Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them.	Portuguese proverb
Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone.	Portuguese proverb
He who makes more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you.	Portuguese proverb
Let not him that has a mouth ask another to blow.	Portuguese proverb
He who has a good nest, finds good friends.	Portuguese proverb
He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse.	Portuguese proverb
He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour’s.	Portuguese proverb
Will he nill he, the ass must go to the fair.	Portuguese proverb
Would you know your daughter? See her in company.	Portuguese proverb
Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living.	Portuguese proverb
The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught.	Portuguese proverb
Pray to the saint until you have passed the slough.	Portuguese proverb
King’s entreaties are commands.	Portuguese proverb
Vile let him be who deems himself vile.	Portuguese proverb
Spilt salt is never well collected.	Portuguese proverb
Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him.	Portuguese proverb
What is another’s always sighs for its master.	Portuguese proverb
Seat yourself in your place, and they will not make you rise.	Portuguese proverb
If you want clear water, draw it from the spring.	Portuguese proverb
If you would know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it.	Portuguese proverb
If you want to be served, serve yourself.	Portuguese proverb
If you would be a good judge, hear what every one says.	Portuguese proverb
If you would grow poor without perceiving it, employ workmen and go to sleep.	Portuguese proverb
If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.	Portuguese proverb
If you would be healthy, be sage betimes.	Portuguese proverb
Serve a lord, and you will know what it is to be vexed.	Portuguese proverb
If a poor man gives to you, he expects more in return.	Portuguese proverb
If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy’s house.	Portuguese proverb
The accomplice is as bad as the thief.	Portuguese proverb
Death spares neither Pope nor beggar.	Portuguese proverb
There die as many lambs as wethers.	Portuguese proverb
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.	Portuguese proverb
Jack is as good as his master.	Portuguese proverb
To be slow in giving and to refuse, are alike.	Portuguese proverb
Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope.	Portuguese proverb
To sell honey to one who keeps hives.	Portuguese proverb
Wind and fortune are not lasting.	Portuguese proverb
I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea.	Portuguese proverb
Little is done where many command.	Dutch proverb
Behind every mountain lies a vale.	Dutch proverb
Before you make a friend, eat a peck of salt with him.	Dutch proverb
Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard.	Dutch proverb
All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil.	Dutch proverb
Every day a thread makes a skein in the year.	Dutch proverb
Men can bear all things except good days.	Dutch proverb
Everything has an end excepting God.	Dutch proverb
All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin.	Dutch proverb
Every man’s friend, is every man’s fool.	Dutch proverb
Allengskens gaat men ook verre.	Dutch proverb
When every one sees that you are a pig, why don’t you go into the sty?.	Dutch proverb
When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps.	Dutch proverb
Where poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window.	Dutch proverb
When the stomach is full the heart is glad.	Dutch proverb
When the ass is too happy he begins dancing on the ice.	Dutch proverb
When the shepherd strays, the sheep stray.	Dutch proverb
When the dog is down, every one is ready to bite him.	Dutch proverb
When the cat sleeps, the mice play.	Dutch proverb
When cats are mousing they don’t mew.	Dutch proverb
When the cat’s away, it is jubilee with the mice.	Dutch proverb
When the cook and the steward fall out we hear who stole the butter.	Dutch proverb
When the husband earns well the wife spins well.	Dutch proverb
When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar.	Dutch proverb
When flies swarm in March, sheep come to their death.	Dutch proverb
When the mouse has had its fill, the meal turns bitter.	Dutch proverb
When the wine goes in the wit goes out.	Dutch proverb
When the wolf grows old the crows ride him.	Dutch proverb
When the sack is full it pricks up its ears.	Dutch proverb
When fools go to market, pedlars make money.	Dutch proverb
When a mouse has fallen into a meal sack, he thinks he is the miller himself.	Dutch proverb
When one sheep is over the dam, the rest follow.	Dutch proverb
Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean.	Dutch proverb
When God means to punish a nation, He deprives its rulers of wisdom.	Dutch proverb
When it is God’s will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death.	Dutch proverb
When God will, the saint cannot.	Dutch proverb
When had comes, have is too late.	Dutch proverb
If he waits long enough the world will be his own.	Dutch proverb
Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle.	Dutch proverb
Talk of the wolf and his tail appears.	Dutch proverb
When nought comes to aught, it does not know itself.	Dutch proverb
When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles.	Dutch proverb
When the head is sick the whole body is sick.	Dutch proverb
When the pig has had a bellyful it upsets the trough.	Dutch proverb
When things go well it is easy to advise.	Dutch proverb
When two dogs fight for a bone, the third runs away with it.	Dutch proverb
When thy neighbour’s house is on fire it’s time to look about thee.	Dutch proverb
Poverty is the reward of idleness.	Dutch proverb
A beggar’s estate lies in all lands.	Dutch proverb
Promises make debts, and debts make promises.	Dutch proverb
Promising is one thing, performing another.	Dutch proverb
Love others well, but love thyself the most; give good for good, but not to thine own cost.	Dutch proverb
Better poor on land than rich at sea.	Dutch proverb
Better belly burst than good victuals spoil.	Dutch proverb
Better be carried by an ass than thrown by a horse.	Dutch proverb
Better a leg broken than the neck.	Dutch proverb
Better a blind horse than an empty halter.	Dutch proverb
Better one eye-witness than ten hearsay witnesses.	Dutch proverb
Better a bird in the hand than ten in the air.	Dutch proverb
Better half an egg than an empty shell.	Dutch proverb
Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life.	Dutch proverb
Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate.	Dutch proverb
Beter in de vogelen sang dan in ’t ijzeren klang.	Dutch proverb
Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords.	Dutch proverb
Better on the heath with an old cart than at sea in a new ship.	Dutch proverb
Better lose the anchor than the whole ship.	Dutch proverb
Better keep peace than make peace.	Dutch proverb
There is a fool at every feast.	Dutch proverb
It is safest sailing within reach of the shore.	Dutch proverb
Bite me not, my name is little grizzle; had I a little tail I should be a little lion.	Dutch proverb
Evil words corrupt good manners.	Dutch proverb
Eat bread that’s light, and cheese by weight.	Dutch proverb
More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes.	Dutch proverb
There come as many calf-skins to market as ox-skins.	Dutch proverb
When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch.	Dutch proverb
Where there’s no good within, no good comes out.	Dutch proverb
The devil’s in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump.	Dutch proverb
Where a man feels pain he lays his hand.	Dutch proverb
When two quarrel both are in the wrong.	Dutch proverb
Bird never flew so high but it had to come to the ground for food.	Dutch proverb
Never was hood so holy but the devil could get his head into it.	Dutch proverb
There are more thieves than are hanged.	Dutch proverb
That beer’s of your own brewing, and you must drink it.	Dutch proverb
Tell no one what you would have known only to yourself.	Dutch proverb
That is beggar’s fare, said the dame, when she fried eggs with the sausages.	Dutch proverb
That’s all well and good, but gold is better.	Dutch proverb
’Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar.	Dutch proverb
The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling.	Dutch proverb
Let lie what is too heavy to lift.	Dutch proverb
Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth.	Dutch proverb
The absent always bear the blame.	Dutch proverb
The best fodder is the master’s eye.	Dutch proverb
The master’s eye and foot are the best manure for the field.	Dutch proverb
The best cause requires a good pleader.	Dutch proverb
The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul.	Dutch proverb
The bow must not be always bent.	Dutch proverb
Woods have ears and fields have eyes.	Dutch proverb
The third person makes good company.	Dutch proverb
The thirteenth man brings death.	Dutch proverb
The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them.	Dutch proverb
The devil has his martyrs among men.	Dutch proverb
The devil is not so black as he is painted.	Dutch proverb
The devil sits behind the cross.	Dutch proverb
Folly hath eagle’s wings, but the eyes of an owl.	Dutch proverb
One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money.	Dutch proverb
One crow does not peck out another’s eyes.	Dutch proverb
One beats the bush and the other catches the bird.	Dutch proverb
The magpie cannot leave her hopping.	Dutch proverb
The ass and the driver never think alike.	Dutch proverb
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.	Dutch proverb
The goose hisses, but does not bite.	Dutch proverb
The counterfeit image of a pot with two ears.	Dutch proverb
The most learned are not the wisest.	Dutch proverb
Fools ask what’s o’clock, but wise men know their time.	Dutch proverb
Hens like to lay where they see an egg.	Dutch proverb
Young fools think that the old are dotards, but the old have forgotten more than the young fools know.	Dutch proverb
The young ravens are beaked like the old.	Dutch proverb
The candle that goes before gives the best light.	Dutch proverb
It is not the cowl that makes the friar.	Dutch proverb
De kleine dieven hangt men, de groote laat men loopen.	Dutch proverb
The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it.	Dutch proverb
The pitcher goes so long to the well that it breaks at last.	Dutch proverb
Cover up the pot, there’s an eel in it.	Dutch proverb
The wicked shun the light as the devil does the cross.	Dutch proverb
The morning hour has gold in its mouth.	Dutch proverb
The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt.	Dutch proverb
Bashfulness is of no use to the needy.	Dutch proverb
Need maketh the old wife trot.	Dutch proverb
Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire.	Dutch proverb
No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf.	Dutch proverb
Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle.	Dutch proverb
The eyes are bigger than the belly.	Dutch proverb
The open door invites the thief.	Dutch proverb
The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black.	Dutch proverb
A beggar’s hand is a bottomless basket.	Dutch proverb
The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich, and so both are devoured.	Dutch proverb
Roses fall, but the thorns remain.	Dutch proverb
To hang your sickle on another man’s corn.	Dutch proverb
A still sow eats up all the draff.	Dutch proverb
To peer out the mote in another’s eye and not the beam in your own.	Dutch proverb
Where the bird was hatched it haunts.	Dutch proverb
The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool.	Dutch proverb
The fruit falls not far from the stem.	Dutch proverb
Truth is the daughter of time.	Dutch proverb
The world likes to be cheated.	Dutch proverb
The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village.	Dutch proverb
To wipe up the sea with a sponge.	Dutch proverb
Sickness comes on horseback and departs on foot.	Dutch proverb
He that buildeth upon the highway hath many advisers.	Dutch proverb
Who don’t keep faith with God won’t keep it with man.	Dutch proverb
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.	Dutch proverb
He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees.	Dutch proverb
He that has the devil on his neck must find him work.	Dutch proverb
Who serves the public serves a fickle master.	Dutch proverb
He that would have the kernel must crack the shell.	Dutch proverb
Who fears no shame comes to no honour.	Dutch proverb
Who knows the tongues is at home everywhere.	Dutch proverb
He that well considers the world, must own he has never seen a better.	Dutch proverb
He that chases another does not sit still himself.	Dutch proverb
He who would cheat a peasant must take one with him.	Dutch proverb
He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily.	Dutch proverb
Who wants to beat a dog, soon finds a stick.	Dutch proverb
He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven.	Dutch proverb
Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth.	Dutch proverb
Who comes first, grinds first.	Dutch proverb
He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling.	Dutch proverb
He that’s born to be hanged will never be drowned.	Dutch proverb
Whoso is tired of happy days, let him take a wife.	Dutch proverb
Who to-day was a haughty knight, is to-morrow a pennyless wight.	Dutch proverb
He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow.	Dutch proverb
He that tickles himself, may laugh when he will.	Dutch proverb
He that has the luck leads the bride to church.	Dutch proverb
What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes.	Dutch proverb
He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick.	Dutch proverb
He that hath an ill name is half hanged.	Dutch proverb
Whoso hunteth with cats will catch nothing but rats.	Dutch proverb
He that would jest must take a jest, else to let it alone were best.	Dutch proverb
He that plays at racket must watch the ball.	Dutch proverb
He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet.	Dutch proverb
He that has a choice has trouble.	Dutch proverb
He that comes unbidden goes unthanked.	Dutch proverb
He that abideth low cannot fall hard.	Dutch proverb
Who has but one eye must take good care of it.	Dutch proverb
He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him.	Dutch proverb
They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove their right.	Dutch proverb
He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas.	Dutch proverb
He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves.	Dutch proverb
Who gives to me, teaches me to give.	Dutch proverb
The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor.	Dutch proverb
Who ventures to lend, loses money and friend.	Dutch proverb
He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands.	Dutch proverb
Deep swimmers and high climbers seldom die in their beds.	Dutch proverb
Who is righteous overmuch is a morsel for the Old One.	Dutch proverb
Who undertakes too much, succeeds but little.	Dutch proverb
He that despises the little is not worthy of the great.	Dutch proverb
He that is bitten by a dog must apply some of its hair.	Dutch proverb
They who come from afar have leave to lie.	Dutch proverb
Who has many servants has many thieves.	Dutch proverb
Who undertakes many things at once seldom does anything well.	Dutch proverb
He that hears much, hears many lies.	Dutch proverb
Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one.	Dutch proverb
He who is afraid of leaves must not go into the wood.	Dutch proverb
He who is surety for another, pays for him.	Dutch proverb
Who wants fire, let him look for it in the ashes.	Dutch proverb
He that will have fire must bear with smoke.	Dutch proverb
He that loves his child chastises him.	Dutch proverb
He who would travel through the land, must go with open purse in hand.	Dutch proverb
He who makes himself honey will be eaten by the bees.	Dutch proverb
He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters.	Dutch proverb
Who reckons without his host must reckon again.	Dutch proverb
Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick more.	Dutch proverb
Daughters may be seen but not heard.	Dutch proverb
Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse.	Dutch proverb
Dominies come for your wine, and officers for your daughters.	Dutch proverb
It’s good steering with wind and tide.	Dutch proverb
Fools are free all the world over.	Dutch proverb
An ape’s an ape, though he wear a gold ring.	Dutch proverb
An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house.	Dutch proverb
The workman is worthy of his hire.	Dutch proverb
A threatened man lives seven years.	Dutch proverb
A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow.	Dutch proverb
A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen.	Dutch proverb
A single day grants what a whole year denies.	Dutch proverb
A brilliant daughter makes a brittle wife.	Dutch proverb
Who weds a sot to get his cot, will lose the cot and keep the sot.	Dutch proverb
An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter.	Dutch proverb
A sad bride makes a glad wife.	Dutch proverb
An honest man’s word is his bond.	Dutch proverb
An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose’s egg.	Dutch proverb
One crow does not make a winter.	Dutch proverb
An inch too short is as bad as an ell.	Dutch proverb
An ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone.	Dutch proverb
A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day.	Dutch proverb
An ennobled peasant does not know his own father.	Dutch proverb
A hired horse and one’s own spurs make short miles.	Dutch proverb
A fool may chance to say a wise thing.	Dutch proverb
One God, one wife, but many friends.	Dutch proverb
A good horse is worth his fodder.	Dutch proverb
A good friend is better than silver and gold.	Dutch proverb
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.	Dutch proverb
Half a word to the wise is enough.	Dutch proverb
A dog with a bone knows no friend.	Dutch proverb
One Take-this is better than two You-shall-haves.	Dutch proverb
A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass.	Dutch proverb
A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer.	Dutch proverb
Every man is master in his own house.	Dutch proverb
Every one is a preacher under the gallows.	Dutch proverb
A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb.	Dutch proverb
A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice.	Dutch proverb
A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year.	Dutch proverb
A liar must have a good memory.	Dutch proverb
An idle man is the devil’s pillow.	Dutch proverb
A man overboard, a mouth the less.	Dutch proverb
A man without money is like a ship without sails.	Dutch proverb
The mouse that hath but one hole is soon caught.	Dutch proverb
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.	Dutch proverb
An ox and an ass don’t yoke well to the same plough.	Dutch proverb
An old rat easily finds a hole.	Dutch proverb
An old rat won’t go into the trap.	Dutch proverb
An old fox doesn’t go twice into the trap.	Dutch proverb
An old wolf is used to be shouted at.	Dutch proverb
An old coachman loves the crack of the whip.	Dutch proverb
A horse may stumble, though he has four feet.	Dutch proverb
A plough that worketh, shines; but still water stinks.	Dutch proverb
One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole.	Dutch proverb
One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand.	Dutch proverb
One scabby sheep infects the whole flock.	Dutch proverb
To cast in a smelt to catch a codfish.	Dutch proverb
To marry once is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness.	Dutch proverb
A penny spared is better than a florin gained.	Dutch proverb
A runaway monk never speaks well of his convent.	Dutch proverb
A flying crow always catches something.	Dutch proverb
One bird in the hand is better than two flying.	Dutch proverb
The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning.	Dutch proverb
A friend at one’s back is a safe bridge.	Dutch proverb
A merry host makes merry guests.	Dutch proverb
A little too late, much too late.	Dutch proverb
A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer.	Dutch proverb
A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea.	Dutch proverb
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.	Dutch proverb
Before you mount, look to the girth.	Dutch proverb
The first in the boat has the choice of oars.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to please every one.	Dutch proverb
Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost.	Dutch proverb
Every bird sings as it is beaked.	Dutch proverb
Every man his own is not too much.	Dutch proverb
Every one is a thief in his own craft.	Dutch proverb
Every one must row with the oars he has.	Dutch proverb
Every shot does not bring down a bird.	Dutch proverb
Every one for himself, God for us all.	Dutch proverb
Every man thinks his own owl a falcon.	Dutch proverb
Like will to like, be they poor or rich.	Dutch proverb
Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it.	Dutch proverb
There is a remedy for all things save death.	Dutch proverb
There is nothing so secret but it transpires.	Dutch proverb
First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows.	Dutch proverb
In eating ’tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in.	Dutch proverb
Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles.	Dutch proverb
No better masters than poverty and want.	Dutch proverb
Nothing in haste but catching fleas.	Dutch proverb
Nothing so bad but it finds its master.	Dutch proverb
There is no joy without alloy.	Dutch proverb
Don’t throw away your old shoes till you have got new ones.	Dutch proverb
The richest man, whatever his lot, is he who’s content with what he has got.	Dutch proverb
No greater promisers than they who have nothing to give.	Dutch proverb
Hired horses make short miles.	Dutch proverb
Coupled sheep drown one another.	Dutch proverb
Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair.	Dutch proverb
Fortune and glass break soon, alas!.	Dutch proverb
Painted flowers have no odour.	Dutch proverb
Gemeen gerucht is zelden gelogen.	Dutch proverb
Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth.	Dutch proverb
As you began the dance you may pay the piper.	Dutch proverb
God does not pay weekly, but pays at the end.	Dutch proverb
God deliver me from the man of one book.	Dutch proverb
God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it.	Dutch proverb
God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk.	Dutch proverb
God sent him meat, but the devil cooked it.	Dutch proverb
Good drink drives out bad thoughts.	Dutch proverb
Good day to you all! said the fox, when he got into the goose-pen.	Dutch proverb
Good company makes short miles.	Dutch proverb
A good fire makes a quick cook.	Dutch proverb
The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake.	Dutch proverb
Great greediness to reap, helps not the money-heap.	Dutch proverb
Great promisers, bad paymasters.	Dutch proverb
Great fools must have great bells.	Dutch proverb
Big fish spring out of the kettle.	Dutch proverb
Big fish devour the little ones.	Dutch proverb
Great talkers are little doers.	Dutch proverb
Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed.	Dutch proverb
Haastigen spoed is zelden goed.	Dutch proverb
Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance.	Dutch proverb
If thou touchest pitch thou shalt be defiled.	Dutch proverb
Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand.	Dutch proverb
To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave.	Dutch proverb
Set a beggar on horseback, and he don’t trot, but gallops.	Dutch proverb
Help yourself and God will help you.	Dutch proverb
The best goods are the cheapest.	Dutch proverb
The best horse stumbles sometimes.	Dutch proverb
It sticks to his fingers, like the charity-money to the matron.	Dutch proverb
Darkness and night are mothers of thought.	Dutch proverb
The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow.	Dutch proverb
The end of all things is death.	Dutch proverb
Give at first asking what you safely can; ’tis certain gain to help an honest man.	Dutch proverb
Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill.	Dutch proverb
Fortune does not stand waiting at any one’s door.	Dutch proverb
It hangs upon a silken thread.	Dutch proverb
My shirt is nearer than my cloak.	Dutch proverb
It is not the hen which cackles most that lays most eggs.	Dutch proverb
’Tis best woo where a man can see the smoke.	Dutch proverb
It is better to blow than burn your mouth.	Dutch proverb
It is a grief to one beggar that another stands at the door.	Dutch proverb
It grieveth one dog that the other goeth into the kitchen.	Dutch proverb
It is a poor mouse that has but one hole.	Dutch proverb
It’s a long lane that has no turning.	Dutch proverb
He must shoot well who always hits the mark.	Dutch proverb
It is good speaking that improves good silence.	Dutch proverb
It is a hard morsel that chokes.	Dutch proverb
It is a bad well into which one must put water.	Dutch proverb
He is as good a divine as Judas was an apostle.	Dutch proverb
’Tis a fat bird that bastes itself.	Dutch proverb
’Tis a wise child that knows its own father.	Dutch proverb
The art is not in making money, but in keeping it.	Dutch proverb
He is no merchant who always gains.	Dutch proverb
It’s pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry.	Dutch proverb
God cures, and the doctor gets the money.	Dutch proverb
’Tis well that wicked cows have short horns.	Dutch proverb
It is good to sleep in a whole skin.	Dutch proverb
It is easy to be liberal out of another man’s purse.	Dutch proverb
It is easy to cut thongs from other men’s leather.	Dutch proverb
It is good spinning from another’s yarn.	Dutch proverb
It’s good dancing on another man’s floor.	Dutch proverb
It is good to go afoot when one is tired of riding.	Dutch proverb
It’s good feasting in another’s hall.	Dutch proverb
It is good to warm oneself by another’s fire.	Dutch proverb
That is good wisdom which is wisdom in the end.	Dutch proverb
That’s quickly done which is long repented.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to find a pin in the dark.	Dutch proverb
It’s ill jesting with edged tools.	Dutch proverb
It is ill catching hares with drums.	Dutch proverb
It’s bad combing where there is no hair.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to steal where the host is a thief.	Dutch proverb
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.	Dutch proverb
’Tis too late to spare when the cask is bare.	Dutch proverb
It is too late to cry “Hold hard!” when the arrow has left the bow.	Dutch proverb
Better twice remembered than once forgotten.	Dutch proverb
That’s as much as a bean in a brewing copper.	Dutch proverb
What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last.	Dutch proverb
It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool’s head.	Dutch proverb
He must indeed be a good master who never errs.	Dutch proverb
The eye of the master makes the horse fat, and that of the mistress the chambers neat.	Dutch proverb
The worst wheel makes most noise.	Dutch proverb
Pleasures steal away the mind.	Dutch proverb
It flows like a fountain from a broomstick.	Dutch proverb
To piece the lion’s skin with that of the fox.	Dutch proverb
The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair.	Dutch proverb
All are not cooks who wear long knives.	Dutch proverb
All are not friends who smile on you.	Dutch proverb
He measures others by his own standard.	Dutch proverb
He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter.	Dutch proverb
He burns the candle at both ends.	Dutch proverb
He gapes like a clown at a fair.	Dutch proverb
He has the Bible on his lips, but not in his heart.	Dutch proverb
He has a ton of knowledge, but the bottom is out.	Dutch proverb
He means well, but has a bad way of showing it.	Dutch proverb
He would rather have a bumper in hand than a Bible.	Dutch proverb
He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep.	Dutch proverb
He is an essence of scoundrels.	Dutch proverb
He was born upon St. Galtpert’s night, three days before luck.	Dutch proverb
He is as sharp as a leaden dagger.	Dutch proverb
He is too stupid to be trusted alone by the fire.	Dutch proverb
He is too idle to fetch his breath.	Dutch proverb
He is as easily caught as a hare with drums.	Dutch proverb
He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep.	Dutch proverb
He is of the race of Johnny Van Cleeve; who would always much rather have than give.	Dutch proverb
He is noble who performs noble deeds.	Dutch proverb
He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva’s dog; who ate flesh in Lent.	Dutch proverb
He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes.	Dutch proverb
He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle.	Dutch proverb
He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns.	Dutch proverb
He lives in the land of promise.	Dutch proverb
He lays his eggs beside his nest.	Dutch proverb
He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes.	Dutch proverb
He must rise betimes who would please everybody.	Dutch proverb
He must gape wide who would gape against an oven.	Dutch proverb
He counts his chickens before they are hatched.	Dutch proverb
He struts as valiantly as an English cock.	Dutch proverb
He earns a farthing and has a penn’orth of thirst.	Dutch proverb
He would be wise who knew all things beforehand.	Dutch proverb
He waits long that waits for another man’s death.	Dutch proverb
He wants to fly before he has wings.	Dutch proverb
He thinks to catch shell-fish in the trees.	Dutch proverb
The nobler the tree, the more pliant the twig.	Dutch proverb
The better lawyer, the worse Christian.	Dutch proverb
The higher the mountain the lower the vale, the taller the tree the harder the fall.	Dutch proverb
The worse service, the better luck.	Dutch proverb
The more servants the worse service.	Dutch proverb
The more you stir a t—d, the more it stinks.	Dutch proverb
The nearer the bone the sweeter the flesh.	Dutch proverb
The older one grows, the more one learns.	Dutch proverb
The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats.	Dutch proverb
The worse the carpenter the more the chips.	Dutch proverb
The worse the wheel, the more it creaks.	Dutch proverb
The farther from Rome the nearer to God.	Dutch proverb
Dogs have teeth in all countries.	Dutch proverb
A hundred bakers, a hundred millers, and a hundred tailors are three hundred thieves.	Dutch proverb
All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettles, says the boaster.	Dutch proverb
I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please.	Dutch proverb
I may go over my reckoning, but not over my time.	Dutch proverb
Friends are known in time of need.	Dutch proverb
Much wisdom is smothered in a poor man’s head.	Dutch proverb
In geluk voorzigtigheid, in ongeluk geduld.	Dutch proverb
In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still.	Dutch proverb
In the land of the blind the one-eyed is a king.	Dutch proverb
In the land of promise a man may die of hunger.	Dutch proverb
In small woods may be caught large hares.	Dutch proverb
In prosperity think of adversity.	Dutch proverb
Young cats will mouse, young apes will louse.	Dutch proverb
The young may die, the old must.	Dutch proverb
Young twigs may be bent, but not old trees.	Dutch proverb
Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great thieves by the purse.	Dutch proverb
Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones.	Dutch proverb
Klein gewin brengt rijkdom in.	Dutch proverb
Coffee has two virtues, it is wet and warm.	Dutch proverb
Let me get over the lake, and I have no fear of the brook.	Dutch proverb
When the devil gets into the church he seats himself on the altar.	Dutch proverb
Merchants’ goods are ebb and flood.	Dutch proverb
The beadle’s cow may graze in the churchyard.	Dutch proverb
Creaking carts last the longest.	Dutch proverb
”Bad company,” said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk.	Dutch proverb
Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears.	Dutch proverb
Long fasting is no bread sparing.	Dutch proverb
By slow degrees the bird builds his nest.	Dutch proverb
Empty vessels make the most sound.	Dutch proverb
Idleness is hunger’s mother, and of theft it is full brother.	Dutch proverb
Your friend lends and your enemy asks payment.	Dutch proverb
Learn thou of learned men, th’ unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be.	Dutch proverb
Sloth is the beginning of vice.	Dutch proverb
Better reap two days too soon than one too late.	Dutch proverb
Starved lice bite the hardest.	Dutch proverb
Measure thrice before you cut once.	Dutch proverb
When the calf is drowned they cover the well.	Dutch proverb
Many seek good nights and lose good days.	Dutch proverb
It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady.	Dutch proverb
There’s no making a donkey drink against his will.	Dutch proverb
One can’t shoe a running horse.	Dutch proverb
There’s no making a silk purse of a sow’s ear.	Dutch proverb
A man is not known till he cometh to honour.	Dutch proverb
Men go not laughing to heaven.	Dutch proverb
Put not all your eggs into one basket.	Dutch proverb
Don’t sell the bearskin before the bear is dead.	Dutch proverb
Milk the cow, but don’t pull off the udder.	Dutch proverb
Render unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar’s.	Dutch proverb
Don’t yoke the plough before the horses.	Dutch proverb
Don’t throw the handle after the bill.	Dutch proverb
A man must eat, though every tree were a gallows.	Dutch proverb
Men must sail while the wind serveth.	Dutch proverb
Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers.	Dutch proverb
More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a cask of vinegar.	Dutch proverb
Hares are not caught with drums.	Dutch proverb
Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word.	Dutch proverb
Truth is lost with too much debating.	Dutch proverb
By labour fire is got out of a stone.	Dutch proverb
By the living we bury the dead.	Dutch proverb
Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love.	Dutch proverb
It is bad marketing with empty pockets.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to catch hares with unwilling hounds.	Dutch proverb
In time a mouse will gnaw through a cable.	Dutch proverb
Met vallen leert men zeker gaan.	Dutch proverb
Stock-fish are made tender by much beating.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to blow with a full mouth.	Dutch proverb
The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch.	Dutch proverb
After ebb comes flood, and friends with good.	Dutch proverb
After honour and state follow envy and hate.	Dutch proverb
After the sour comes the sweet.	Dutch proverb
Choose a Brabant sheep, a Guelder ox, a Flemish capon, and a Friezeland cow.	Dutch proverb
Take nothing in hand that may bring repentance.	Dutch proverb
No man knoweth fortune till he dies.	Dutch proverb
No one is wise in his own affairs.	Dutch proverb
No one can have peace longer than his neighbour pleases.	Dutch proverb
No man learneth but by pain or shame.	Dutch proverb
No one knows where another’s shoe pinches.	Dutch proverb
No one so sure but he may miss.	Dutch proverb
To do nothing teacheth to do evil.	Dutch proverb
Better lose your labour than your time in idleness.	Dutch proverb
No office so humble but it is better than nothing.	Dutch proverb
On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep.	Dutch proverb
It is good rowing with set sail.	Dutch proverb
Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens.	Dutch proverb
Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree.	Dutch proverb
Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you’re laid to sleep.	Dutch proverb
Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead.	Dutch proverb
Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to teach old dogs to bark.	Dutch proverb
Old birds are not caught with cats.	Dutch proverb
Touch a galled horse and he’ll wince.	Dutch proverb
Don’t cry holloa! till you’re out of the bush.	Dutch proverb
Don’t cry holloa! till you’re over the bridge.	Dutch proverb
Don’t cry herrings till they are in the net.	Dutch proverb
Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home.	Dutch proverb
Shame lasts longer than poverty.	Dutch proverb
Handsome apples are sometimes sour.	Dutch proverb
Fair money can cover much that’s foul.	Dutch proverb
Beauty is but dross if honesty be lost.	Dutch proverb
Strike whilst the iron is hot.	Dutch proverb
Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break.	Dutch proverb
Wasting is a bad habit, sparing a sure income.	Dutch proverb
Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience.	Dutch proverb
Spreken is zilver, zwijgen is goud.	Dutch proverb
Stay a while, and lose a mile.	Dutch proverb
Put your hand in your conscience and see if it don’t come out as black as pitch.	Dutch proverb
Thrust not thy finger in a fool’s mouth.	Dutch proverb
Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet.	Dutch proverb
Caress your dog, and he’ll spoil your clothes.	Dutch proverb
It is hard to swim against the stream.	Dutch proverb
It is ill sailing against wind and tide.	Dutch proverb
Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream.	Dutch proverb
Time and place make the thief.	Dutch proverb
When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?.	Dutch proverb
If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak.	Dutch proverb
Between the hammer and the anvil.	Dutch proverb
’Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip.	Dutch proverb
Between two stools the breech cometh to the ground.	Dutch proverb
To bring down two apples with one stick.	Dutch proverb
Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife.	Dutch proverb
Two dogs seldom agree over one bone.	Dutch proverb
Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.	Dutch proverb
Travel east or travel west, a man’s own house is still the best.	Dutch proverb
To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing.	Dutch proverb
From the boat we get to the ship.	Dutch proverb
From a spark the house is burnt.	Dutch proverb
It is pleasant to cut thongs of another man’s leather.	Dutch proverb
From little things men go on to great.	Dutch proverb
From small beginnings come great things.	Dutch proverb
From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort.	Dutch proverb
Far fetched and dear bought is meat for ladies.	Dutch proverb
Sweep before your own door before you look after your neighbour’s.	Dutch proverb
Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs.	Dutch proverb
When many shepherds tend the sheep, they but so much the longer sleep.	Dutch proverb
Many hounds are the death of the hare.	Dutch proverb
Too many cooks oversalt the porridge.	Dutch proverb
Many open a door to shut a window.	Dutch proverb
Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault.	Dutch proverb
Don’t sell the skin till you’ve caught the bear.	Dutch proverb
Wise men sue for offices, and blockheads get them.	Dutch proverb
Were the sky to fall, not an earthen pot would be left whole.	Dutch proverb
Full bottles and glasses make swearers and asses.	Dutch proverb
For great evils strong remedies.	Dutch proverb
It is good sailing with wind and tide.	Dutch proverb
Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses.	Dutch proverb
A friend’s dinner is soon dressed.	Dutch proverb
Sooner or later the truth comes to light.	Dutch proverb
Where the bee sucks honey, the spider sucks poison.	Dutch proverb
Where the hedge is lowest every one goes over.	Dutch proverb
When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window.	Dutch proverb
He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit.	Dutch proverb
Where there is nothing, the emperor loses his right.	Dutch proverb
Beware of the man of two faces.	Dutch proverb
When the wine is in the man, the wit is in the can.	Dutch proverb
When thieves fall out, honest men come to their goods.	Dutch proverb
When the tree falls every one runs to cut boughs.	Dutch proverb
Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily.	Dutch proverb
Wax, flax, and tin; much out and little in.	Dutch proverb
What the sober man thinks, the drunkard tells.	Dutch proverb
He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.	Dutch proverb
What the eye sees not, the heart craves not.	Dutch proverb
What is bred in the bone won’t out of the flesh.	Dutch proverb
What costs nothing is worth nothing.	Dutch proverb
That which burns thee not, cool not.	Dutch proverb
What is wrong to-day won’t be right to-morrow.	Dutch proverb
The less said the sooner mended.	Dutch proverb
With honour and store, what would you more.	Dutch proverb
Good leading makes good following.	Dutch proverb
Worldly good is ebb and flood.	Dutch proverb
He who would gather roses, must not fear thorns.	Dutch proverb
He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door.	Dutch proverb
Who has no thirst has no business at the fountain.	Dutch proverb
He who dies not in his twenty-third year, drowns not in his twenty-fourth, and is not slain in his twenty-fifth, may boast of good days.	Dutch proverb
Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?.	Dutch proverb
He who hunts two hares at once, catches neither.	Dutch proverb
Who has plenty of pepper may pepper his beans.	Dutch proverb
Who spits against the wind, fouls his beard.	Dutch proverb
They who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin.	Dutch proverb
He who mixes himself with the draff will be eaten by the swine.	Dutch proverb
He who slanders his neighbour makes a rod for himself.	Dutch proverb
Who chastises his child will be honoured by him, who chastises him not will be shamed.	Dutch proverb
Who goes fasting to bed will sleep but lightly.	Dutch proverb
Wisdom in the man, patience in the wife, brings peace to the house, and a happy life.	Dutch proverb
Show me a liar, I’ll show you a thief.	Dutch proverb
Who would regard all things complacently must wink at a great many.	Dutch proverb
Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink.	Dutch proverb
Tender surgeons make foul wounds.	Dutch proverb
Set thy expense according to thy trade.	Dutch proverb
All do not bite that show their teeth.	Dutch proverb
They agree like cats and dogs.	Dutch proverb
His money takes the place of wisdom.	Dutch proverb
They understand one another like thieves in a fair.	Dutch proverb
All are not princes who ride with the emperor.	Dutch proverb
If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap.	Dutch proverb
Offer a clown your finger, and he’ll take your fist.	Dutch proverb
Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much.	Dutch proverb
Were fools silent they would pass for wise.	Dutch proverb
The year has a wide mouth and a big belly.	Danish proverb
Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles.	Danish proverb
Deceit and treachery make no man rich.	Danish proverb
By gnawing skin a dog learns to eat leather.	Danish proverb
A large fire often comes from a small spark.	Danish proverb
Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich.	Danish proverb
Age is a sorry travelling companion.	Danish proverb
Age makes many a man whiter, but not better.	Danish proverb
A bird may be ever so small, it always seeks a nest of its own.	Danish proverb
A woman may be ever so old, if she takes fire she will jump.	Danish proverb
A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen.	Danish proverb
There were never fewer nobles than when all would be so.	Danish proverb
Every little helps, said the sow, when she snapped at a gnat.	Danish proverb
All keys hang not at one woman’s girdle.	Danish proverb
All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass.	Danish proverb
Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly.	Danish proverb
All wish to live long, but none to be called old.	Danish proverb
Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day’s duty.	Danish proverb
Everything has an end—except a sausage, which has two.	Danish proverb
Always to be sparing is always to be in want.	Danish proverb
A fool laughs when others laugh.	Danish proverb
As water runs towards the shore, so does money towards the rich man’s hand.	Danish proverb
The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones.	Danish proverb
Earnestness and sport go well together.	Danish proverb
Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste.	Danish proverb
Love and poverty are hard to conceal.	Danish proverb
The curse on the hearth wounds the deepest.	Danish proverb
A cross-grained woman and a snappish dog take care of the house.	Danish proverb
To bait and to grease does not retard a journey.	Danish proverb
To wait and be patient soothes many a pang.	Danish proverb
To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose.	Danish proverb
To cut into another man’s ear is like cutting into a felt hat.	Danish proverb
To withhold truth is to bury gold.	Danish proverb
To know the law and do the right are two things.	Danish proverb
Correction is good when administered in time.	Danish proverb
Envy does not enter an empty house.	Danish proverb
Envy was never a good spokesman.	Danish proverb
An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him.	Danish proverb
A curse will not strike out an eye, unless the fist goes with it.	Danish proverb
A child’s back must be bent early.	Danish proverb
A child must creep until it learns to walk.	Danish proverb
A child’s sorrow is short-lived.	Danish proverb
Though the ass may carry a sack of gold, it nevertheless feeds on thistles.	Danish proverb
If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse.	Danish proverb
Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow.	Danish proverb
Better the child cry, than the mother sigh.	Danish proverb
Bedre at blæse hart end at brænde sig.	Danish proverb
Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose.	Danish proverb
Better come late to church than never.	Danish proverb
Better spare at the brim than at the bottom.	Danish proverb
Better to be a free bird than a captive king.	Danish proverb
The wet branch burns better than the dry stone.	Danish proverb
One bird in the hand is better than two on the roof.	Danish proverb
Better a salt herring on your own table, than a fresh pike on another man’s.	Danish proverb
Better an open enemy than a false friend.	Danish proverb
Better the child cry than the old man.	Danish proverb
Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-bush.	Danish proverb
Bedre er at lide for Sandhed, end at Lönnes for Lögn.	Danish proverb
It is easier to stem the brook than the river.	Danish proverb
It is better to make conditions in the bush than in prison.	Danish proverb
Better the world should know you as a sinner than God know you as a hypocrite.	Danish proverb
Bread is better than the song of birds.	Danish proverb
Better is the branch that bends, than the branch that breaks.	Danish proverb
It is better to buy dearly than to hunger direly.	Danish proverb
Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble.	Danish proverb
A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit.	Danish proverb
One word beforehand is better than ten afterwards.	Danish proverb
Better coarse cloth than naked thighs.	Danish proverb
Better whole than patched with gold.	Danish proverb
Luck is better than a hundred marks.	Danish proverb
A small bolt to the house is better than none at all.	Danish proverb
Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister.	Danish proverb
A smooth tongue is better than smooth locks.	Danish proverb
Better to deny at once, than to promise long.	Danish proverb
Speaking silence is better than senseless speech.	Danish proverb
Better twice measured than once wrong.	Danish proverb
Better weak beer than an empty cask.	Danish proverb
Better a friend’s bite than an enemy’s caress.	Danish proverb
Better in an old carriage than in a new ship.	Danish proverb
Better no law, than law not enforced.	Danish proverb
Better a little in peace and with right, than much with anxiety and strife.	Danish proverb
Better something on the arm than all in the stomach.	Danish proverb
Better walk on wooden legs, than be carried on a wooden bier.	Danish proverb
The fire burns brightest on one’s own hearth.	Danish proverb
A blind pigeon may sometimes find a grain of wheat.	Danish proverb
Let the blood be ever so thin, it is always thicker than water.	Danish proverb
Flowers are the pledges of fruit.	Danish proverb
The foot of the farmer manures the field.	Danish proverb
What is got by begging is dearly bought.	Danish proverb
Children are the riches of the poor.	Danish proverb
Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy.	Danish proverb
A burnt child fears the fire, and a bitten child fears a dog.	Danish proverb
Advice to a fool goes in at one ear and out at the other.	Danish proverb
It is folly to fear what one cannot avoid.	Danish proverb
When the rooks are silent the swans begin to sing.	Danish proverb
The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without.	Danish proverb
The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil.	Danish proverb
All are not good cooks who carry long knives.	Danish proverb
It is not all who turn their backs that flee.	Danish proverb
The aged in council—the young in action.	Danish proverb
As the virtue in the tree, such is the fruit.	Danish proverb
The still swine eat the mash, the wild ones run past it.	Danish proverb
That bench is well adorned that is filled with virtuous women.	Danish proverb
The day is sure to come when the cow will want her tail.	Danish proverb
That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound.	Danish proverb
He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others’.	Danish proverb
He that does not save pennies, will never have pounds.	Danish proverb
He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either.	Danish proverb
He who marries a widow with three children, marries four thieves.	Danish proverb
He who waits for dead men’s shoes, may have to go long barefoot.	Danish proverb
He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep.	Danish proverb
One hunts the hare, and another eats it.	Danish proverb
One raven does not peck out another’s eyes.	Danish proverb
One beggar likes not that another has two wallets.	Danish proverb
He is a fool that praises himself, and he a madman that speaks ill of himself.	Danish proverb
It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats.	Danish proverb
He is little suited to be a baker, whose head is made of butter.	Danish proverb
He who is of no use to himself, is of no use to any one.	Danish proverb
He who would be everywhere will be nowhere.	Danish proverb
He is easy to lure, who is ready to follow.	Danish proverb
He is a man, who acts like a man.	Danish proverb
He is nearest to God who has the fewest wants.	Danish proverb
He is nearest a thing, who has it in his hands.	Danish proverb
He is young enough who has health, and he is rich enough who has no debts.	Danish proverb
He is worthy of sweets, who has tasted bitters.	Danish proverb
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.	Danish proverb
The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers.	Danish proverb
The first bird gets the first grain.	Danish proverb
The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly.	Danish proverb
The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles.	Danish proverb
Honour the old, teach the young.	Danish proverb
He who puts by for the night, puts by for the cat.	Danish proverb
He that sings himself is the best pleased.	Danish proverb
He runs heavily who is forced to run.	Danish proverb
The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer.	Danish proverb
He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand.	Danish proverb
A clever man’s inheritance is found in every country.	Danish proverb
He that bears the cross, blesses himself first.	Danish proverb
A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part.	Danish proverb
Blame is the lazy man’s wages.	Danish proverb
A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself.	Danish proverb
He who laughs last, laughs best.	Danish proverb
He does not live in this world that can skin a grindstone.	Danish proverb
The generous man grows rich in giving, the miser poor in taking.	Danish proverb
Money saved is as good as money gained.	Danish proverb
That’s but an empty purse which is full of other men’s money.	Danish proverb
The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind.	Danish proverb
He who rides the horse is his master.	Danish proverb
He fears the sack who has been in it.	Danish proverb
He that keeps out of harm’s way will gather goodly riches.	Danish proverb
The laggard cow gets the sour grass.	Danish proverb
He sits well who can rise without help.	Danish proverb
He who abuses others must not be particular about the answer he gets.	Danish proverb
He is not yet born who can please everybody.	Danish proverb
He needs a long spoon that would eat out of the same dish with the devil.	Danish proverb
He must have much meal who would stop all mouths.	Danish proverb
He must have clean fingers who would blow another’s nose.	Danish proverb
He must be ill-favoured who scares the devil.	Danish proverb
He who has bad neighbours is fain to praise himself.	Danish proverb
He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny.	Danish proverb
He had need rise betimes who would please everybody.	Danish proverb
He must be a clever host that would take the devil into his hostelry.	Danish proverb
He who will not obey father, will have to obey stepfather.	Danish proverb
He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel.	Danish proverb
He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg.	Danish proverb
He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there.	Danish proverb
He who says what he likes, must hear what he does not like.	Danish proverb
He who is fed by another’s hand seldom gets enough.	Danish proverb
He who knows how to beg may leave his money at home.	Danish proverb
He who would drive another over three dikes must climb over two himself.	Danish proverb
The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at last.	Danish proverb
The oft moved stone gathers no moss.	Danish proverb
He is most cheated who cheats himself.	Danish proverb
He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in check.	Danish proverb
He knows best where the shoe pinches who wears it.	Danish proverb
It is hard to track the path the ship follows in the ocean.	Danish proverb
There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads.	Danish proverb
Every little fish expects to become a whale.	Danish proverb
There is no fire without smoke.	Danish proverb
There is no cure against a slanderer’s bite.	Danish proverb
There are many days in the year, and still more meals.	Danish proverb
There is help for everything, except death.	Danish proverb
It takes many words to fill a sack.	Danish proverb
You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum.	Danish proverb
A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing.	Danish proverb
You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger.	Danish proverb
When wisdom fails, luck helps.	Danish proverb
Where law lacks, honour should eke it out.	Danish proverb
Where there is no wit within no wit will come out.	Danish proverb
The scoffer’s own house is often on fire.	Danish proverb
People must eat, even were every tree a gallows.	Danish proverb
It needs a high wall to keep out fear.	Danish proverb
It takes a good many mice to kill a cat.	Danish proverb
If the hen did not cackle no one would know what she had been about.	Danish proverb
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.	Danish proverb
It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate.	Danish proverb
Truth must be seasoned to make it palatable.	Danish proverb
A scald head needs strong lye.	Danish proverb
The more you stir filth the worse it stinks.	Danish proverb
The child who gets a stepmother also gets a stepfather.	Danish proverb
The best manure is under the farmer’s shoe.	Danish proverb
Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow.	Danish proverb
What the sober man has in his heart, the drunken man has on his lips.	Danish proverb
There is no need to blow what does not burn you.	Danish proverb
It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing.	Danish proverb
It is of no use making shoes for geese.	Danish proverb
One sword keeps another in the scabbard.	Danish proverb
Better cross an angry man than a fasting man.	Danish proverb
Better be convinced by words than by blows.	Danish proverb
Better ask twice than lose your way once.	Danish proverb
It is folly to drown on dry land.	Danish proverb
It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man.	Danish proverb
It is folly to take a thorn out of another’s foot and put it into your own.	Danish proverb
You may call that your own which no one can take from you.	Danish proverb
It is dearbought butter that is licked off a woolcomb.	Danish proverb
It is not all gold that glitters.	Danish proverb
What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach.	Danish proverb
It is no child’s play when an old woman dances.	Danish proverb
It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage.	Danish proverb
Not every wood will make wooden shoes.	Danish proverb
It is not every hog that the crow will ride.	Danish proverb
It is a poor roast that gives no dripping.	Danish proverb
It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat’s ear.	Danish proverb
Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise.	Danish proverb
It is a lazy bird that will not build its own nest.	Danish proverb
It is a bad well that needs water to be carried to it.	Danish proverb
It is a bad hand that refuses to guard the head.	Danish proverb
It is a poor horse that is not worth its oats.	Danish proverb
That is poor help that helps you from the feather-bed to the straw.	Danish proverb
It is an ill turn that does no good to any one.	Danish proverb
He is a poor Smith who is afraid of sparks.	Danish proverb
It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb.	Danish proverb
It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm.	Danish proverb
It is a wise child that knows its own father.	Danish proverb
It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head.	Danish proverb
It is too late to cry cat, when the bacon is eaten.	Danish proverb
It is too late to cover the well when the child is drowned.	Danish proverb
It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down.	Danish proverb
”It is easy to work with a good comb,” said the devil, when he combed his mother’s hair with a pitchfork.	Danish proverb
It is good to lend to God and to the soil—they pay good interest.	Danish proverb
It is easy to manage when fortune favours.	Danish proverb
It is good to sleep on a whole skin.	Danish proverb
It is easy to poke another man’s fire.	Danish proverb
It is easy to swim, when another holds up your head.	Danish proverb
It is easy to be generous out of another man’s purse.	Danish proverb
It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time.	Danish proverb
It is bitter fare to eat one’s own words.	Danish proverb
It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear.	Danish proverb
It is not for nothing that the devil lays himself down in the ditch.	Danish proverb
It is not easy to know your butter in another man’s cabbage.	Danish proverb
It is not easy to walk upon the devil’s ice.	Danish proverb
It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw.	Danish proverb
It is not every man that can carry a falcon on his hand.	Danish proverb
To a friend’s house the road is never long.	Danish proverb
The hen is ill off when the egg teaches her how to cackle.	Danish proverb
He is no small knave who knows a great one.	Danish proverb
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortunes.	Danish proverb
It is easy to bid the devil be your guest, but difficult to get rid of him.	Danish proverb
It is easy to stride a tree when it is down.	Danish proverb
It is easy to find the rod when another finds the bottom.	Danish proverb
The road to heaven is equally short, where’er we die.	Danish proverb
It is difficult to get many heads under one hat.	Danish proverb
It is useless to gape against an oven.	Danish proverb
It is hard to make a fire on a cold hearth.	Danish proverb
It is hard to teach an old dog tricks.	Danish proverb
It is hard to lure hawks with empty hands.	Danish proverb
It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate.	Danish proverb
It is bad to be between two fires.	Danish proverb
It is difficult to hide what everybody knows.	Danish proverb
It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall.	Danish proverb
It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad.	Danish proverb
It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece.	Danish proverb
It is bad iron in which there is no steel.	Danish proverb
It is as well to be naked as to have no covering.	Danish proverb
It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt.	Danish proverb
From children you must expect childish acts.	Danish proverb
It is hard to labour with an empty belly.	Danish proverb
It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck.	Danish proverb
It is time enough to take off your hat when you see the man.	Danish proverb
A woman’s first counsel is the best.	Danish proverb
There is no use in blowing a fire that burns well.	Danish proverb
It has been blowing hard—the dirt has been blown into high places.	Danish proverb
It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy.	Danish proverb
The most difficult mountain to cross is the threshold.	Danish proverb
That may be soon done, which brings long repentance.	Danish proverb
”It will come back,” said the man, when he gave his sow pork.	Danish proverb
Thaw reveals what has been hidden by snow.	Danish proverb
The corn that is taken to a bad mill, will be badly ground.	Danish proverb
A pleasant thing never comes too soon.	Danish proverb
That which has been eaten out of the pot cannot be put into the dish.	Danish proverb
What you learn to your cost you remember long.	Danish proverb
Words once spoken cannot be wiped out with a sponge.	Danish proverb
It is better to scrape the cheese than to peel it.	Danish proverb
If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open.	Danish proverb
The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook.	Danish proverb
It must be a hard winter when one wolf devours another.	Danish proverb
That which is unsaid, may be spoken; that which is said, cannot be unsaid.	Danish proverb
It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes.	Danish proverb
It is only the blind who ask why they are loved who are fair.	Danish proverb
It does not depend upon the dog when the horse shall die.	Danish proverb
What youth learns, age does not forget.	Danish proverb
Young people must be taught, old ones be honoured.	Danish proverb
It is pleasant driving when there is no danger of upsetting.	Danish proverb
Death does not blow a trumpet.	Danish proverb
A truthteller finds the doors closed against him.	Danish proverb
A bold man has luck in his train.	Danish proverb
A drunken man may soon be made to dance.	Danish proverb
The drunken man’s joy is often the sober man’s sorrow.	Danish proverb
Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow.	Danish proverb
Stoop, and let it pass; the storm will have its way.	Danish proverb
Virtue in the middle, said the Devil, when seated between two lawyers.	Danish proverb
Eggs and oaths are easily broken.	Danish proverb
One man is not bad because another is good.	Danish proverb
One man is born to the money, and another to the purse.	Danish proverb
One hand full of money is stronger than two hands full of truth.	Danish proverb
One to one, and two to the devil.	Danish proverb
One ploughs, another sows, who will reap no one knows.	Danish proverb
One penny is better on land than ten on the sea.	Danish proverb
One man often talks another off his bench, and seats himself upon it.	Danish proverb
One swallow don’t make a summer.	Danish proverb
One piece of good advice is better than a bag full.	Danish proverb
Hair by hair, and the head gets bald.	Danish proverb
One hair of a maiden’s head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen.	Danish proverb
One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock.	Danish proverb
After one that earns comes one that wastes.	Danish proverb
For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait.	Danish proverb
A hearth of your own is worth gold.	Danish proverb
The pot boils best on your own hearth.	Danish proverb
The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer.	Danish proverb
Another man’s horse and your own whip can do a great deal.	Danish proverb
A boor remains a boor, though he sleep on silken bolsters.	Danish proverb
A deaf auditor makes a crazy answerer.	Danish proverb
Dull scissors make crooked-mouthed tailors.	Danish proverb
A fool only wins the first game.	Danish proverb
Alone in counsel, alone in sorrow.	Danish proverb
Fish and guests smell at three days old.	Danish proverb
A goose drinks as much as a gander.	Danish proverb
Praise a fair day in the evening.	Danish proverb
A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard.	Danish proverb
Every man carries an enemy in his own bosom.	Danish proverb
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.	Danish proverb
Let every man carry his own sack to the mill.	Danish proverb
Every man thinks his copper is gold.	Danish proverb
Every fool thinks he is clever enough.	Danish proverb
Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest.	Danish proverb
Every one rakes the fire under his own pot.	Danish proverb
Every wind is against a leaky ship.	Danish proverb
A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you.	Danish proverb
One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer.	Danish proverb
A bad horse eats as much as a good one.	Danish proverb
A foul mouth must be provided with a strong back.	Danish proverb
There’s many a knave concealed under a surplice.	Danish proverb
A penny in time is as good as a dollar.	Danish proverb
A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog.	Danish proverb
A sparrow suffers as much when it breaks its leg as does a Flanders horse.	Danish proverb
A willing helper does not wait until he is asked.	Danish proverb
The bird once out of hand is hard to recover.	Danish proverb
A small cloud may hide both sun and moon.	Danish proverb
One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock.	Danish proverb
If you cannot get the bird, get one of its feathers.	Danish proverb
Few have luck, all have death.	Danish proverb
The sheep that bleat the most give the least milk.	Danish proverb
Father and mother are kind, but God is kinder.	Danish proverb
Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent.	Danish proverb
A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent.	Danish proverb
Fair words please the fool, and sometimes the wise.	Danish proverb
Should the heavens fall, many pipkins will be broken.	Danish proverb
Poor relations have little honour.	Danish proverb
A poor man has few acquaintances.	Danish proverb
The pride of the poor does not endure.	Danish proverb
A poor man’s joy has much alloy.	Danish proverb
The poor man’s corn always grows thin.	Danish proverb
The poor man seeks for food, the rich man for appetite.	Danish proverb
Do as others do, and few will mock you.	Danish proverb
More people are slain by suppers than by the sword.	Danish proverb
The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone.	Danish proverb
Though the bird may fly over your head, let it not make its nest in your hair.	Danish proverb
Every foal is not like its sire.	Danish proverb
A silly song may be sung in many ways.	Danish proverb
Every man has his lot, and a wide world before him.	Danish proverb
Before a man learns to hang he is half dead.	Danish proverb
It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book.	Danish proverb
The master derives honour from his art.	Danish proverb
Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound.	Danish proverb
Too little and too much spoils everything.	Danish proverb
To circumstances and custom the law must yield.	Danish proverb
”Own kin are the worst friends,” said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him.	Danish proverb
Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly.	Danish proverb
Peace must be bought even at a high price.	Danish proverb
Strangers’ meat is the greatest treat.	Danish proverb
A bold attempt is half success.	Danish proverb
”Ladies have ladies’ whims,” said crazy Ann, when she draggled her cloak in the gutter.	Danish proverb
However high a bird may soar, it seeks its food on earth.	Danish proverb
A full vessel must be carried carefully.	Danish proverb
”Fie upon thee, how black thou art!” said the kettle to the saucepan.	Danish proverb
Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint.	Danish proverb
When fortune’s chariot rolls easily, envy and shame cling to the wheels.	Danish proverb
The goose goes so often into the kitchen, till at last she sticks to the spit.	Danish proverb
”I’ll go myself,” and “I’ll see to it,” are two good servants on a farm.	Danish proverb
Mad dogs get their coats torn.	Danish proverb
Old birds are not caught with chaff.	Danish proverb
An old fool is worse than a young simpleton.	Danish proverb
The old branch breaks when it is bent.	Danish proverb
An old man’s sayings are seldom untrue.	Danish proverb
An old wolf is not scared by loud cries.	Danish proverb
The pike grows big on small fry.	Danish proverb
Keep your mouth, and keep your friend.	Danish proverb
Drive not away what never came near you.	Danish proverb
A short cut is often a wrong cut.	Danish proverb
The miser’s bag is never full.	Danish proverb
A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn.	Danish proverb
An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone.	Danish proverb
Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can.	Danish proverb
Act honestly, and answer boldly.	Danish proverb
Act so in the valley, that you need not fear those who stand on the hill.	Danish proverb
Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee.	Danish proverb
What is done cannot be undone.	Danish proverb
If God give not bushelfuls, he gives spoonfuls.	Danish proverb
Give a pig when it grunts, and a child when it cries, and you will have a fine pig, and a bad child.	Danish proverb
Give a rogue an inch, and he will take an ell.	Danish proverb
A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning.	Danish proverb
Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones.	Danish proverb
Good counsel will not rot, if it be got in dry.	Danish proverb
A good king is better than an old law.	Danish proverb
A good neighbour is better than a brother far off.	Danish proverb
A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair.	Danish proverb
It is well to have clean bread in one’s wallet.	Danish proverb
Rest is good after the work is done.	Danish proverb
It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather.	Danish proverb
A good handicraft has a golden foundation.	Danish proverb
A barren sow is never kind to pigs.	Danish proverb
Grey hairs are death’s blossoms.	Danish proverb
God help the sheep when the wolf is judge.	Danish proverb
God never sends mouths but he sends meat.	Danish proverb
God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest.	Danish proverb
God sends men cold according to their clothes.	Danish proverb
God gives the will, necessity gives the law.	Danish proverb
God comes at last, when we think he is farthest off.	Danish proverb
To God’s council-chamber there is no key.	Danish proverb
Gold is gold, though it be in a rogue’s purse.	Danish proverb
A golden key opens every door except that of heaven.	Danish proverb
Favour and gifts disturb justice.	Danish proverb
Hope and expectation are a fool’s income.	Danish proverb
Hope is the dream of the waking.	Danish proverb
Hope is an egg of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell.	Danish proverb
One hand must wash the other, or both will be dirty.	Danish proverb
A hard bit does not make the horse better.	Danish proverb
It is difficult to tie an unborn horse to the manger.	Danish proverb
Faint praise is akin to abuse.	Danish proverb
He drives a good waggonful into his farm who gets a good wife.	Danish proverb
He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn.	Danish proverb
He knocks boldly at the door who brings a welcome message.	Danish proverb
A man dances all the same, though he may dance against his will.	Danish proverb
He who was born to be hanged will not be drowned, unless the water go over the gallows.	Danish proverb
He that hides is no better than he that steals.	Danish proverb
He that holds is no better than he that scourges.	Danish proverb
He who is everywhere, is nowhere.	Danish proverb
Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal.	Danish proverb
He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush.	Danish proverb
Even he gets on who is drawn by oxen.	Danish proverb
He came time enough who was hung by candlelight.	Danish proverb
He that courts injury will obtain it.	Danish proverb
He has command of the sack who is seated on it.	Danish proverb
He must have iron fingers who would flay the devil.	Danish proverb
He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody’s mouth.	Danish proverb
He must keep a sharp look-out who would speak the truth.	Danish proverb
He must cry loud who would scare the devil.	Danish proverb
He must be pure who would blame another.	Danish proverb
He scolds most that can hurt the least.	Danish proverb
He knows the water best who has waded through it.	Danish proverb
If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden.	Danish proverb
He that says what he should not, will hear what he would not.	Danish proverb
Care, and not fine stables, make a good horse.	Danish proverb
Had it not been for an if, the old woman would have bitten a wolf.	Danish proverb
The heron blames the water because he cannot swim.	Danish proverb
I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another’s hearth.	Danish proverb
Secret gifts are openly rewarded.	Danish proverb
Great men’s requests are commands.	Danish proverb
A lord without land, is like a cask without wine.	Danish proverb
The horse must go to the manger, and not the manger to the horse.	Danish proverb
Help is good everywhere, except in the porridge-bowl.	Danish proverb
The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it.	Danish proverb
Life at court is often a short cut to hell.	Danish proverb
Keep to the little ones, and the big ones will not bite you.	Danish proverb
Keep your nose out of another’s mess.	Danish proverb
It is the raised stick that makes the dog obey.	Danish proverb
Hear one man before you answer; hear several before you decide.	Danish proverb
That which comes with sin, goes with sorrow.	Danish proverb
Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short.	Danish proverb
He who does not look before him, must take misfortune for his earnings.	Danish proverb
He who sows money, will reap poverty.	Danish proverb
He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning.	Danish proverb
He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope.	Danish proverb
Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter.	Danish proverb
Every man likes his own praise best.	Danish proverb
A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home.	Danish proverb
Everybody says it; nobody knows it.	Danish proverb
Every man must carry his own sack to the mill.	Danish proverb
He who rises early will gather wisdom.	Danish proverb
He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody.	Danish proverb
He who lives without restraint, will die without honour.	Danish proverb
He that has no money in his purse, should have fair words on his lips.	Danish proverb
He who can’t get bacon, must be content with cabbage.	Danish proverb
He who would not go to hell, must not go to court.	Danish proverb
He who was born to pennies, will never be master of dollars.	Danish proverb
He who is far from home, is near to harm.	Danish proverb
He who flees, proves himself guilty.	Danish proverb
He who feeds a wolf, strengthens his enemy.	Danish proverb
When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand.	Danish proverb
He that lies down with dogs, will get up with fleas.	Danish proverb
He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn.	Danish proverb
He who has a white horse and a fair wife is seldom without trouble.	Danish proverb
If a man has folly in his sleeve, it will be sure to peep out.	Danish proverb
He that cuts above himself, will get splinters in his eye.	Danish proverb
They who do not wash well, do not bleach well.	Danish proverb
He who has no falcon, must hunt with owls.	Danish proverb
He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance.	Danish proverb
He who hunts with cats will catch mice.	Danish proverb
He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move.	Danish proverb
He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink.	Danish proverb
He who herds with wolves, learns to howl.	Danish proverb
He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn.	Danish proverb
He who sows hatred shall gather rue.	Danish proverb
He who would make a fool of himself will find many to help him.	Danish proverb
He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head.	Danish proverb
He who stands high is seen from afar.	Danish proverb
He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter.	Danish proverb
He who takes the child by the hand, takes the mother by the heart.	Danish proverb
He who would eat the kernel, must crack the shell.	Danish proverb
He who would close another man’s mouth, should first tie up his own.	Danish proverb
He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price.	Danish proverb
He who would enjoy the fire must bear the smoke.	Danish proverb
He that wants to hang a dog, is sure to find a rope.	Danish proverb
He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees.	Danish proverb
He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange.	Danish proverb
He who tastes every man’s broth, often burns his mouth.	Danish proverb
Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand.	Danish proverb
Those who climb high, often have a fall.	Danish proverb
He who would eat the kernel, must crack the nut.	Danish proverb
He who comes first to the mill is first served.	Danish proverb
He who despises small things seldom grows rich.	Danish proverb
He who sows little, reaps little.	Danish proverb
He who has plenty of butter, may put some in his cabbage.	Danish proverb
He that inquires much, learns much.	Danish proverb
Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather.	Danish proverb
Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty.	Danish proverb
When there is room in the heart, there is room in the house.	Danish proverb
He who would save, should begin with the mouth.	Danish proverb
Where a man never goes, there his head will never be washed.	Danish proverb
Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under.	Danish proverb
When mistrust enters, love departs.	Danish proverb
Where money and counsel are wanting, it is best not to make war.	Danish proverb
Where will is right, law is banished.	Danish proverb
When anger blinds the eyes, truth disappears.	Danish proverb
He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine.	Danish proverb
He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases.	Danish proverb
He who speaks ill of himself is praised by no one.	Danish proverb
He who builds according to every man’s advice will have a crooked house.	Danish proverb
He who is scared by words, has no heart for deeds.	Danish proverb
He that touches pitch defiles himself.	Danish proverb
He who knows a knave, makes no bid for him.	Danish proverb
He who sows iniquity shall reap shame.	Danish proverb
He who would leap high must take a long run.	Danish proverb
He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard.	Danish proverb
If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell.	Danish proverb
He who loves sorrow, will always find something to mourn over.	Danish proverb
Chop, and you will have splinters.	Danish proverb
The dog will not get free by biting his chain.	Danish proverb
A dog is a dog whatever his colour.	Danish proverb
A hundred waggonsful of sorrow will not pay a handful of debt.	Danish proverb
A hungry dog and a thirsty horse take no heed of blows.	Danish proverb
Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm.	Danish proverb
The eye of the master makes the horse fat.	Danish proverb
There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept.	Danish proverb
To-day in gold, to-morrow in the mould.	Danish proverb
Diligent work makes a skilful workman.	Danish proverb
In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger.	Danish proverb
The dog’s kennel is not the place to keep a sausage.	Danish proverb
The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns.	Danish proverb
An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose.	Danish proverb
Fire and straw soon make a flame.	Danish proverb
Gold is proved in the fire, friendship in need.	Danish proverb
It is bad for puppies to play with bear-cubs.	Danish proverb
No one can be caught in places he does not visit.	Danish proverb
None so deaf as those who won’t hear.	Danish proverb
No man is so tall that he need never stretch, and none so small that he need never stoop.	Danish proverb
No one is rich enough to do without his neighbour.	Danish proverb
Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way.	Danish proverb
No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high.	Danish proverb
No man limps because another is hurt.	Danish proverb
Let a saint be ever so humble, he will have his wax taper.	Danish proverb
No one knows the parson better than the clerk.	Danish proverb
A cow is not called dappled unless she has a spot.	Danish proverb
No one gets into trouble without his own help.	Danish proverb
No man looks for another in a sack, unless he have been there himself.	Danish proverb
Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or a humble enemy.	Danish proverb
Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack.	Danish proverb
In still water are the largest fish.	Danish proverb
In still water the worms are worst.	Danish proverb
”I am a judge of cresses,” said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock.	Danish proverb
”It is not for my own sake,” said the fox, “that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood.”.	Danish proverb
The nobler the blood the less the pride.	Danish proverb
The more knave, the better luck.	Danish proverb
The more shepherds the less care.	Danish proverb
The more cooks, the worse broth.	Danish proverb
The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod.	Danish proverb
The more by law, the less by right.	Danish proverb
The greater the fear, the nearer the danger.	Danish proverb
The earth is always frozen to lazy swine.	Danish proverb
Call not the devil, he will come fast enough unbidden.	Danish proverb
It is not the surplice that makes parson or clerk.	Danish proverb
Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee.	Danish proverb
Throw not the child out with the bath.	Danish proverb
What is play to the cat is death to the mouse.	Danish proverb
Love’s plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care.	Danish proverb
Though you teach a wolf the paternoster, he will say: “Lamb! lamb!”.	Danish proverb
The cow is milked, not the ox; the sheep is shorn, not the horse.	Danish proverb
Art is art, even though unsuccessful.	Danish proverb
Art and knowledge bring bread and honour.	Danish proverb
A crow is never the whiter for often washing.	Danish proverb
Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer.	Danish proverb
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it gets broken at last.	Danish proverb
Kisses are the messengers of love.	Danish proverb
Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy.	Danish proverb
A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles.	Danish proverb
To live long is to suffer long.	Danish proverb
A threatened man lives long, if he can get bread.	Danish proverb
Let a child have its will, and it will not cry.	Danish proverb
Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row.	Danish proverb
Give your wife the short knife, and keep the long one for yourself.	Danish proverb
Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs.	Danish proverb
National customs are national honours.	Danish proverb
It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one.	Danish proverb
Idleness is the devil’s bolster.	Danish proverb
It is best to play with equals.	Danish proverb
If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad.	Danish proverb
The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot.	Danish proverb
Another man’s burden is always light.	Danish proverb
A little stone may upset a large cart.	Danish proverb
Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour.	Danish proverb
A fair exchange brings no quarrel.	Danish proverb
Lambs don’t run into the mouth of the sleeping wolf.	Danish proverb
Promises and undressed cloth are apt to shrink.	Danish proverb
Falsehood is the Devil’s daughter, and speaks her father’s tongue.	Danish proverb
Lies and gossip have a wretched offspring.	Danish proverb
Lies and Latin go round the world.	Danish proverb
Onions, smoke, and a shrew, make a good man’s eyes water.	Danish proverb
Praise paves the way to friendship.	Danish proverb
To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome.	Danish proverb
Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping.	Danish proverb
Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black.	Danish proverb
The flame is not far from the smoke.	Danish proverb
Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in.	Danish proverb
Luck will carry a man across the brook if he is not too lazy to leap.	Danish proverb
Luck taps at the door and inquires whether prudence is within.	Danish proverb
Luck has much for many, but enough for no one.	Danish proverb
Luck has but a slender anchorage.	Danish proverb
Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light.	Danish proverb
Magten gaaer ofte for Konsten.	Danish proverb
Might and courage require wit in their suite.	Danish proverb
Man angrer ofte sin Tale, men sielden sin Taushed.	Danish proverb
Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you.	Danish proverb
A man often kisses the hand he would like to see cut off.	Danish proverb
A man is not a lord because he feeds off fine dishes.	Danish proverb
You must contrive to bake with the flour you have.	Danish proverb
You may gain by fair words what may fail you by angry ones.	Danish proverb
You cannot take a cow from a man who has none.	Danish proverb
You can have no more of the fox than his skin.	Danish proverb
More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.	Danish proverb
It is easier to fill a rogue’s belly than his eye.	Danish proverb
Many little rivulets make a great river.	Danish proverb
Many have too much, but none have enough.	Danish proverb
Many dogs are the death of the hare.	Danish proverb
Many grains of sand will sink a ship.	Danish proverb
Many a man is a good friend but a bad neighbour.	Danish proverb
Many a sheep goes out woolly and comes home shorn.	Danish proverb
Much broth is sometimes made with little meat.	Danish proverb
Many a cow stands in the meadow and looks wistfully at the common.	Danish proverb
Many a man labours for the day he will never live to see.	Danish proverb
Many a one would like to lay his own shame on another man’s back.	Danish proverb
Many love to praise right and do wrong.	Danish proverb
You cannot make a good archbishop of a rogue.	Danish proverb
You cannot make a good hunting-horn of a pig’s tail.	Danish proverb
You may get something off a bone, but nothing off a stone.	Danish proverb
You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses.	Danish proverb
You may always find an opportunity in your sleeve, if you like.	Danish proverb
A head is not to be cut off because it is scabby.	Danish proverb
Many a thing whispered into one ear is heard over the whole town.	Danish proverb
You cannot pull hard with a broken rope.	Danish proverb
You cannot sail as you would, but as the wind blows.	Danish proverb
A man cannot carry all his kin on his back.	Danish proverb
You cannot drink and whistle at the same time.	Danish proverb
You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin.	Danish proverb
No one can see into another further than his teeth.	Danish proverb
You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar.	Danish proverb
You may force a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink.	Danish proverb
You may force a man to shut his eyes, but not to sleep.	Danish proverb
You may force an ox to the water, but you cannot make him drink.	Danish proverb
You may light another’s candle at your own without loss.	Danish proverb
You may cook in small pots as well as in large ones.	Danish proverb
One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep.	Danish proverb
We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back.	Danish proverb
Of bad debtors you may take spoilt herrings.	Danish proverb
Even that fish may be caught that strives the hardest against it.	Danish proverb
Make use of the sun while it shines.	Danish proverb
Take not your sickle to another man’s corn.	Danish proverb
Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained.	Danish proverb
Keep not two tongues in one mouth.	Danish proverb
Throw no stones at a sleeping dog.	Danish proverb
Honour the tree that gives you shelter.	Danish proverb
Do not judge the dog by his hairs.	Danish proverb
Trust not a skittish horse, nor a great lord, when they shake their heads.	Danish proverb
All hairy skins must not be singed.	Danish proverb
You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather.	Danish proverb
A man must keep his mouth open a long while before a roast pigeon flies into it.	Danish proverb
You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it.	Danish proverb
We must suffer much, or die young.	Danish proverb
We must sow even after a bad harvest.	Danish proverb
Chastise a good child, that it may not grow bad, and a bad one, that it may not grow worse.	Danish proverb
Follow the customs, or fly the country.	Danish proverb
You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance.	Danish proverb
You must howl with the wolves when you are among them.	Danish proverb
Bend the willow while it is young.	Danish proverb
You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for lamb before night.	Danish proverb
There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale.	Danish proverb
While the grass is growing the mare dies.	Danish proverb
While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood.	Danish proverb
With law must the land be built.	Danish proverb
Evil must be driven out by evil.	Danish proverb
Between saying and doing there is a great distance.	Danish proverb
Distrust is poison to friendship.	Danish proverb
The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues.	Danish proverb
The morn hour has gold in its mouth.	Danish proverb
Gifts make friendship lasting.	Danish proverb
The mouth often utters that which the head must answer for.	Danish proverb
The mouse is knowing, but the cat more knowing.	Danish proverb
While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones.	Danish proverb
When it pours upon the parson, it drops upon the clerk.	Danish proverb
When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon.	Danish proverb
If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow.	Danish proverb
When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling.	Danish proverb
When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing.	Danish proverb
When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck.	Danish proverb
When fools go to market the huckster gets money.	Danish proverb
When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage.	Danish proverb
When the head aches all the limbs ache.	Danish proverb
When every one minds his own business the work is done.	Danish proverb
When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth.	Danish proverb
When cat and mouse agree, the farmer has no chance.	Danish proverb
When the helm is gone the ship will soon be wrecked.	Danish proverb
When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master’s wine-cask.	Danish proverb
When the manger is empty the horses fight.	Danish proverb
When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them.	Danish proverb
When the game is most thriving it is time to leave off.	Danish proverb
When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom.	Danish proverb
When the wolf’s ears appear, his body is not far off.	Danish proverb
He that performs his own errand saves the messenger’s hire.	Danish proverb
If you would catch a fox you must hunt with geese.	Danish proverb
When the mouse has had enough the meal is bitter.	Danish proverb
When the beer goes in the wits go out.	Danish proverb
When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger.	Danish proverb
When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese.	Danish proverb
When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten.	Danish proverb
When dirt comes to honour it knows not what to be.	Danish proverb
A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat.	Danish proverb
When the cord is tightest it is nearest snapping.	Danish proverb
When the sword is in the mouth you must caress the sheath.	Danish proverb
When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it.	Danish proverb
When the crane attempts to dance with the horse she gets broken bones.	Danish proverb
When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks.	Danish proverb
When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods.	Danish proverb
When the host smiles most blandly he has an eye to the guest’s purse.	Danish proverb
When the waggon is tilting everybody gives it a shove.	Danish proverb
A neighbour’s eye is full of jealousy.	Danish proverb
A fool is like other men as long as he is silent.	Danish proverb
No is a good answer when given in time.	Danish proverb
No and yes cause long disputes.	Danish proverb
New comers are always welcome.	Danish proverb
The new is always liked, though the old is often better.	Danish proverb
That which has been thrown away has often to be begged for again.	Danish proverb
A royal heart is often hid under a tattered cloak.	Danish proverb
The mouse may find a hole, be the room ever so full of cats.	Danish proverb
The young pig must often suffer for what the old sow did.	Danish proverb
Rain comes oft after sunshine, and after a dark cloud a clear sky.	Danish proverb
A rich child often sits in a poor mother’s lap.	Danish proverb
Eye-service is the courtier’s art.	Danish proverb
Unworthy offspring brag the most of their worthy descent.	Danish proverb
Between evil tongues and evil ears, there is nothing to choose.	Danish proverb
Ill weeds grow the fastest and last the longest.	Danish proverb
An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye.	Danish proverb
An evil deed has a witness in the bosom.	Danish proverb
A bad wife wishes her husband’s heel turned homewards, and not his toe.	Danish proverb
An ill-tempered woman is the devil’s door-nail.	Danish proverb
A bad tree does not yield good apples.	Danish proverb
A naughty child must be roughly rocked.	Danish proverb
Bad is never good until worse happens.	Danish proverb
It is difficult to trap an old fox.	Danish proverb
It is hard to glean after a niggardly husbandman.	Danish proverb
It is hard to sail without wind, and to grind without water.	Danish proverb
It is bad to lean against a falling wall.	Danish proverb
Evil is soon done, but slowly mended.	Danish proverb
It is hard to pay for bread that has been eaten.	Danish proverb
A man is bound by his word, an ox with a hempen cord.	Danish proverb
”Peter, I am taking a ride,” said the goose, when the fox was running into the wood with her.	Danish proverb
Money is more eloquent than a dozen members of parliament.	Danish proverb
The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough.	Danish proverb
A priest’s pocket is not easily filled.	Danish proverb
Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death.	Danish proverb
Good counsel is no better than bad counsel, if it be not taken in time.	Danish proverb
A timid man has little chance.	Danish proverb
The fox does not go twice into the same trap.	Danish proverb
The raven always thinks that her young ones are the whitest.	Danish proverb
The raven is fair when the rook is not by.	Danish proverb
Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare.	Danish proverb
A clean hand moves freely through the land.	Danish proverb
The upright never grow rich in a hurry.	Danish proverb
Riches are often abused, but never refused.	Danish proverb
Riches breed care, poverty is safe.	Danish proverb
Riches and favour go before wisdom and art.	Danish proverb
A rich wife is a source of quarrel.	Danish proverb
A rod is better than a fox’s brush.	Danish proverb
A slight suspicion may destroy a good repute.	Danish proverb
Praise a fool, and you may make him useful.	Danish proverb
Liberal hands make many friends.	Danish proverb
A man’s character reaches town before his person.	Danish proverb
Fame and repute follow a man to the door.	Danish proverb
As a man dresses so is he esteemed.	Danish proverb
According to his pinions the bird flies.	Danish proverb
The bow may be bent until it breaks.	Danish proverb
A man who is not spoken of is not abused.	Danish proverb
The hen lives by pickings, as the lion by prey.	Danish proverb
Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others.	Danish proverb
Don’t sell the skin till you have caught the fox.	Danish proverb
Like seeks like—a scabbed horse and a sandy dike.	Danish proverb
Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask.	Danish proverb
Children and drunken men speak the truth.	Danish proverb
A truth-telling woman has few friends.	Danish proverb
Sail while the breeze blows, wind and tide wait for no man.	Danish proverb
What you do yourself is well done.	Danish proverb
A modest dog seldom grows fat.	Danish proverb
A full belly dances better than a fine coat.	Danish proverb
The branch is seldom better than the stem.	Danish proverb
Good corn is not reaped from a bad field.	Danish proverb
A glad heart seldom sighs, but a sorrowful mouth often laughs.	Danish proverb
Late repentance is seldom worth much.	Danish proverb
Misfortune seldom comes alone to the house.	Danish proverb
If lies are to find credence, they must be patched with truth.	Danish proverb
The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it.	Danish proverb
The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat.	Danish proverb
The forest has ears, and the field has eyes.	Danish proverb
Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat.	Danish proverb
Blacksmith’s children are not afraid of sparks.	Danish proverb
Flattery is sweet food for those who can swallow it.	Danish proverb
Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause.	Danish proverb
Quick and well seldom go together.	Danish proverb
Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors.	Danish proverb
Silver and gold are all men’s dears.	Danish proverb
As the old ones sing, the young ones twitter.	Danish proverb
As the master is, so are his men.	Danish proverb
As the man is, so is his speech.	Danish proverb
Slander expires at a good woman’s door.	Danish proverb
A tottering man must lean upon a staff.	Danish proverb
No one so hard upon the poor as the pauper who has got into power.	Danish proverb
The hen flies not far unless the cock flies with her.	Danish proverb
A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud.	Danish proverb
What is play to the strong is death to the weak.	Danish proverb
Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor.	Danish proverb
Great lords have long hands, but they do not reach to heaven.	Danish proverb
Great lords will have much, and poor folk can give but little.	Danish proverb
Big words seldom go with good deeds.	Danish proverb
Govern a horse with a bit, and a shrew with a stick.	Danish proverb
Treachery and slander are long lived.	Danish proverb
Sickness is every man’s master.	Danish proverb
Sickness comes uninvited—no need to bespeak it.	Danish proverb
Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure.	Danish proverb
The herb patience does not grow in every man’s garden.	Danish proverb
Take care of your geese when the fox preaches.	Danish proverb
Take help of many, advice of few.	Danish proverb
Take advice of a red-bearded man, and be gone.	Danish proverb
A thankless man never does a thankful deed.	Danish proverb
Speak little of your ill luck, and boast not of your good luck.	Danish proverb
The tooth often bites the tongue, and yet they keep together.	Danish proverb
The silent man is most trusted.	Danish proverb
Time is not tied to a post, like a horse to the manger.	Danish proverb
A fair skin often covers a crooked mind.	Danish proverb
You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience.	Danish proverb
Truth’s cloak is often lined with lies.	Danish proverb
Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls.	Danish proverb
A man does not always aim at what he means to hit.	Danish proverb
The cock often crows without a victory.	Danish proverb
He that you seat upon your shoulder will often try to get upon your head.	Danish proverb
A silent man’s words are not brought into court.	Danish proverb
The steps at court are slippery.	Danish proverb
At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire.	Danish proverb
When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water.	Danish proverb
Vice is learnt without a schoolmaster.	Danish proverb
Ten noes are better than one lie.	Danish proverb
Wash a dog and comb a dog, he still remains a dog.	Danish proverb
Two may lie so as to hang a third.	Danish proverb
An empty cellar makes an angry butler.	Danish proverb
Empty barrels give the most sound.	Danish proverb
Empty waggons make most noise.	Danish proverb
Thundershowers and great men’s favour are always partial.	Danish proverb
Want and necessity break faith and oaths.	Danish proverb
The tree is sure to be pruned before it reaches the skies.	Danish proverb
Smoke, rain, and a scolding wife, are three bad things in a house.	Danish proverb
There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew.	Danish proverb
Trust everybody, but thyself most.	Danish proverb
A thief thinks every man steals.	Danish proverb
Treachery lurks in honeyed words.	Danish proverb
The owl thinks her children the fairest.	Danish proverb
The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog.	Danish proverb
The wolf preys not in his own field.	Danish proverb
A young foal and an old horse draw not well together.	Danish proverb
Unwilling service earns no thanks.	Danish proverb
Do not wade where you see no bottom.	Danish proverb
The water runs while the miller sleeps.	Danish proverb
Beware of the dog himself, his shadow does not bite.	Danish proverb
If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill.	Danish proverb
If a beard were all, the goat would be the winner.	Danish proverb
If thoughts were legal witnesses, many an honest man would be proved a rogue.	Danish proverb
Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning.	Danish proverb
If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men.	Danish proverb
Do not put in more warp than you can weave.	Danish proverb
The sword keeps the peace of the land.	Danish proverb
Kind words and few are a woman’s ornament.	Danish proverb
A friend’s faults may be noticed, but not blamed.	Danish proverb
Weighty work must be done with few words.	Danish proverb
We are all well placed, said the cat, when she was seated on the bacon.	Danish proverb
The waggon must go whither the horses draw it.	Danish proverb
The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback.	Danish proverb
